In order to shine, the stars consume six hundred million tons of this element per second, and turn (transmute) this element into helium.
This element is the most abundant element in the universe, making up seventy-five per cent of normal matter by mass and ninety percent by the number of atoms.
Most, but not all organic compounds contain this element.
This element is the lightest element in the universe.
This element’s name comes from the Greek meaning “water former.”
This element is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, non-metallic gas.
This element is highly combustible.
This element is used in fossil fuel production, mining, welding, as a nuclear reactor coolant and once as a lifting gas.
This element is used to make ammonia which is used as a fertilizer. 
This element is used to increasing the level of saturation of unsaturated fats and oils (found in items such as margarine), and in the production of methanol which is used as an antifreeze solvent or fuel.
This element’s isotopes are produced in nuclear reactors, nuclear fission and fusion reactors and are used in very powerful bombs and luminous paints and a a coolant in generators.
The sun’s energy that warms the earth comes from this element’s fusion.
Water contains this element.

This element is used in cryogenics (super cold processes).
This element’s boiling and melting points are the lowest among the elements.
This element is used in superconducting magnets, in MRI scanners and in welding.
This element is used in growing crystals to make silicon wafers.
This element is used in gas chromatography to determine the quality of a substance or to separate a substance.
This element is used in supersonic wind tunnels, for arc welding and as a shielding gas.
This element is blended with air and is used by deep sea divers to prevent narcosis (the bends).
This element is named after the Greek god of the sun.
This element is the second most abundant element in the observable universe.
This element is colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic and inert.
This element is the second lightest element and is used as a lifting gas.

According to cosmological (seeking to understand the universe) theory, this element was one of the three elements synthesized (synthesis: chemical reaction to form a more complex molecule) in the Big Bang.
There is a lot of this element in sea water.
This element is a soft silvery metallic element of the alkali group and very reactive.
This element is the lightest metal and the least dense solid element.
This element is the twenty-fifth most abundant element on earth.
This element is found in most living things.
It is suggested by some scientists that this element is an essential element, promoting long life.
A compound of this element is used to aid persons with bi-polar disorders.
This element has multiple uses, in batteries, for air purification, for coolants, for flux for welding or soldering, for additives for rocket propellants and even nuclear fusion weapons.
When this element was changed to helium in 1932, it was the first man-made nuclear reaction and now serves as a fuel for thermonuclear weapons. 
This element and its compounds have several industrial applications, including heat-resistant glass and ceramics, high strength-to-weight alloys used in aircraft and batteries.

The name of this element comes from several languages, including Latin and Greek, meaning “pale”.
This element is found in several precious gemstones, combined with vanadium or chromium, including aquamarines and emeralds.
This element is transparent to X-Rays so it is used in the windows of X-Ray tubes.
This element may have been created just after the Big Bang by cosmic rays.
This element when combined with copper forms a high strength non-sparking alloy used for tools around oil wells and flammable gases.
This element is a relatively rare element in both the universe and in the crust of the earth.
This element is a steel-gray, strong, lightweight and brittle alkaline earth metal.
This element increases the hardness and resistance to corrosion when alloyed with aluminum, cobalt, copper, iron and nickel.
This element as an alloy is used in high-speed aircraft, missiles, space vehicles, and communication satellites.
This element is relatively transparent to X-Rays and is the most common window material for X-Ray equipment and particle physics experiments.
This element and its oxide compound conduct heat rapidly and are used in heat transport and heat sinking applications.
The dust of this element is toxic and can cause a chronic life-threatening allergy.  
This element is not known to be necessary or useful for either plant or animal life.
The excellent elastic rigidity of this element has led to its extensive use in precision instrumentation, e.g. in gyroscope inertial guidance systems and in support structures for optical systems.
Alloyed with copper this element is six times stronger than copper alone.
As alloys, this element is used in many applications because of its combination of elasticity, high electrical and thermal conductivity, strength, hardness, nonmagnetic properties, and resistance to corrosion and fatigue.
Such instruments made with this element are non-sparking tools, surgical instruments, springs and membranes.
This element is used in meteorological mirrors.

This element is used in “Silly Putty.”
This element, combined with nitrogen, produces crystals almost as hard as a diamond.
This element was formed by the impact of cosmic rays on matter or other cosmic rays.
Because this element strengthens the cell walls of all plants, it is a necessary nutrient in the soil and thought to be necessary for animal life as well.
The name of this element comes from either the Arabic or the Persian words for compounds which contain it.
This element is a metalloid.
This element is not toxic to mammals in moderate quantities, but toxic to insects and is used as an insecticide.
This element is quite hard and a poor conductor.
This element is used in bleaches, fiberglass insulation, high strength ceramics, glasses and some pharmaceuticals.
An isotope of this element is often used to control fission in nuclear reactors as a neutron-capturing substance.
A form of this element is used in used in the neutron capture therapy of cancer This form is taken up by the cancerous cells, killing the tumor cells and also causing a nuclear reaction that bombards the tumor.

This element is the fifteenth most abundant element on earth and the fourth most in the universe.
This element can be highly transparent or soft enough to form a black streak.
This element is among the hardest materials known, but also can be quite soft.
This element is the chemical basis for all known life.
This element’s atoms can form sheets that when rolled into nanotubes are the strongest material known to science.
This element is the strongest abrasive, a good lubricant, a good thermal conductor and a good insulator.
This element is non-metallic.
This element has three radioactive isotopes.
This element has been known since antiquity.
This element has low electrical and high conductivity, depending on its form.
This element forms more compounds than any other element, with almost ten million pure organic compounds. 
Forms of this element are used in clothing as linen, cotton, wool, cashmere and silk.
Plastics and other composite are made with this element and these can be stronger than steel.
This element is the most common fuel, either as gas, crude oil, wood or coal.
This element is the “lead” in pencils, is used as a pigment, a lubricant, in batteries, as a fiber with more strength than steel and in nuclear reactors.
An activated form of this element 
A form of this element is a fine gemstone which is also used for cutting and drilling.
As an alloy with iron, this element makes a type of steel that is very strong. 
An activated form of this element is used to absorb toxins, poisons or gases in applications as diverse as gas masks, water purification ingested in the digestive systems.
Combined with silicon, tungsten, boron and titanium these compound are some of the hardest known materials and are used as abrasives in cutting and grinding tools. 

This element is used as a cryogenic cooling agent.
Seventy-eight per cent of the earth’s atmosphere is composed of this element and commonly as gases in the atmospheres of moons and other planets.
This element is the seventh most abundant in the universe.
This element is thought to be entirely due to synthesis by fusion from carbon and hydrogen in supernovas.
A compound of this element is a vital fertilizer and is used to feed one third of the world.
This element makes a powerful explosive.
This element is used in heart medicine.
This element occurs in all living organisms as proteins, nucleic acids and other molecules.
The name of this element is from the Greek, meaning “forming” or “giving birth to.” 
In compound form, this element is used in industry as an acid, a propellant, with cyanides.
This element is part of a cycle which moves from the air into the biosphere and organic compounds and then back into the atmosphere. 
The human body contains about three per cent weight of nitrogen; the fourth most abundant element after oxygen.
This element is used in incandescent lights as an inexpensive substitute for argon.
This element is used in the production of electronic parts such as transistors, diodes and integrated circuits. 
This element is present in neurotransmitters such as amino acids. This element occurs in all living organisms, in amino acids, proteins and in the nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). 

This element is derived from the Greek words for “sharp” and “producer.”
This element is the third most abundant element in the universe and the most abundant element in the earth’s crust, (not the interior) -almost one half of the crust’s mass.
This element comprises most of the mass of all living organisms.
All major structural molecules in living organisms have this element.
This element is used to smelt iron ore into steel, in hyperbaric chambers, in anti-freeze, in metal cutting and welding and in rocket fuel.
Living organisms use the energy of sunlight to produce this element out of water.
This element is a highly reactive, nonmetallic element that readily forms compounds with almost all other elements.
At standard temperature and pressure, two atoms of this element bind to form a pale blue, odorless, tasteless gas that is an important part of the atmosphere and a compound necessary to sustain life
The free form of this element is too chemically reactive to appear on Earth without the photosynthetic action of living organisms.
This element comprises most of the mass of living organisms.
Another form (allotrope) of this element (ozone), helps protect the biosphere from ultraviolet radiation with the high-altitude ozone layer, but is a pollutant near the surface where it is a by-product of smog.
All major classes of structural molecules in living organisms, such as proteins, carbohydrates, and fats, contain this element.
All major inorganic compounds that comprise animal shells, teeth, and bone contain this element.
This element in its diatomic form is toxic to the early forms of life which were the dominant forms of life until the diatomic form of this element began to accumulate in the atmosphere. 

This element’s name comes from the Latin noun meaning “stream” or “current”.
This element is a pale, yellow gas.
This element is the thirteenth most abundant in the Earth’s crust, but rare in the stars.
This element is not found as a free element on earth because it is so reactive.
Teflon which is used in electrical insulation, chemical-resistant parts, stadium roofs, and cookware is made from this element.
This element is used in some pharmaceuticals such as Lipitor and Prozac.
This element is used “Gortex,” a waterproof, breathable fabric.
This element helps to prevent tooth decay.
This element is the lightest element in its group.
This element is the most electronegative element and is extremely reactive.
One of the main uses of this element is for uranium enrichment.
Another use of this element in acid form is for the sixteen billion dollar per year chemical industry.
This element can eat through glass and tissue.
This element is used for steel making and aluminum refining.
The largest commercial use for this element is in refrigerant gases (Freon).
This element is used to harden tooth enamel by direct application in toothpastes and municipal water supplies that have added this element to the water. 

This element’s name comes from the Greek, meaning “new one.”
This element is a very common element in the universe, but it is rare on Earth
This element is a gas that when excited electrically gives off a red glow.
This element is the least reactive of all the elements. A triple point temperature of this element is used in the International Temperature Scale of 1990
When channeled through an electric and magnetic field, the first stable isotopes of stable atoms were discovered. (The instrument used is now called a “mass spectrometer.”)
This is the second lightest inert gas.
This element has three stable isotopes.
This element is used in vacuum tubes, high-voltage indicators, lightning arresters, wave meter tubes, television tubes, and as a refrigerant.
This element, when blended with helium, is used in some lasers.
This element is a noble gas. 
This element is used in fluorescent lighting where it produces a red-orange light.

Originally called “natron”, the name comes from the Greek and the Egyptian and, in compound form was harvested from dry lake beds in Egypt for thousands of years.
This element was used in castor oil by the Egyptians to make a smokeless fuel to be used in caves while painting art works.
This element is an essential element for all animal and human life, allowing the transmission of nerve impulses.
This element is used as a reducing agent in chemical reactions.
This element is used to remove heat from nuclear reactors.
This element is used to produce more light per unit of electricity that almost any other element.
This element is used as a cleaning agent, in soap, as a mouthwash, and as a bleach.
This element has more than 14,000 different uses.
There is one half pound of this element in most adults.
This element is used to make steel more corrosive resistant.
Thirty-five per cent of this element is in the ocean.
This element is used in lamps, particularly outdoor lamps in soap in fast reactors, as a drying (desiccant) agent, to melt ice on roads, in cooking and baking, as a medicine in a compound with carbon and as a preservative.
This element is an essential nutrient that regulates blood volume, blood pressure, osmotic equilibrium and pH.
This element is a soft silvery-white, highly reactive element and is potentially explosive and generates flammable hydrogen and a caustic base upon contact with water; powdered forms of this element may combust spontaneously in air or oxygen..
This element is an alkali metal. 

This light ductile, silvery white metallic element is the eighth most abundant element in the earth’s crust, the fourth most common in the earth as a whole and the ninth most common in the known universe.
This element’s ions are essential to all living cells.
This element, in compounds, is used as a laxative as an antacid and to treat eclampsia, a life threatening complication to pregnancy.
This element reacts with water and can be used to produce energy in a special type of engine.
This element was used in incendiary weapons (firebombs) in World War 11.
Because this element can be lighted, it was used in early photography as a source of illumination.
In vegetation magnesium is the metallic ion at the center of chlorophyll, and is thus a common additive to fertilizers. 
This element is the third most abundant element dissolved in seawater.
This element is not found naturally as a free element (metal) on earth.
This element obtained by electrolysis of salts obtained from brine (salt water). 
The chief commercial use for this element is as an alloying agent with aluminum to make alloys which are light and strong.
This element is the third most commonly used structural metal, following iron and aluminum. It has been called the lightest useful metal.
The main applications of magnesium are, in order: as a component of aluminum alloys, in die-casting alloyed with zinc to remove sulfur in the production of iron and steel, the production of titanium.
Alloys of this element are widely used for manufacturing of mobile phones, laptop computers, cameras, automobile and airplane engine parts and other electronic components.
This element is the eleventh most abundant element by mass in the human body and is essential to all living cells.

This element is the most abundant metal in the earth’s crust. 
This element is the third most abundant element in the earth’s crust after oxygen and silicon.
Beryllium silicates of the element are emeralds and aquamarines.
Oxides of this element are rubies and sapphires.
Rocket fuels are sometimes made with this element.
This element is lightweight, resists corrosion, conducts heat well and is used to form the structure of most airplanes.
This element is found combined in over 270 different minerals, the chief ore being bauxite.
This element is a silvery white, ductile, malleable, metallic, highly reactive member of the boron of group of elements.
This element has very low density and resists corrosion.
This element is not known to be used by any form of life.
This element is used in transportation (rocket ships airplanes, cars, bicycles, etc.), packing, construction, for cooking utensils, baseball bats, watches, electrical transmission lines, ship masts, transistors, LED lighting, magnets and many more useful items.
This element is nonmagnetic and does not easily ignite and is a good reflector.

The name of this element comes from the Latin word for “flints”.
This non-metallic element constitutes more than one fourth of the earth’s crust and is the second most abundant element after oxygen. Over 90% of the Earth's crust is composed of compounds of this element
This element resembles the element carbon.
This element is in glass, cements and ceramics.
This element is essential in biology, particularly in plants, rice being one example.(And some scientists feel that there could be animal life forms based on this element.)
Some sea sponges grow bones from a type of glass with this element in it.
This element is in glass, ceramics, abrasives and cements.
This element is present in many semi-conductors and microchips and integrated circuits.
This element is used in ceramic brick. 
This element is used in Portland cement, for mortar and stucco and when combined with sand and gravel for concrete.
Clays, most sand and most kinds of building stone have this element in them; as a result, the greatest majority of uses for this element are as structural compounds and ceramics.
This element has become the most popular material to build both high power semiconductors and integrated circuits.

The name of this element comes from the Greek meaning “light bearer.”
This element is a member of the nitrogen group.
This element is usually in an oxide form and is never found as a free element
The lack of this element in the soil has caused mass starvations throughout history.
Used in warfare, this element has burned cities to the ground.
This element is essential for life; it is a component of DNA, RNA ADP, and also the lipids that form all cell membranes.
Fertilizer made from this element helps feed two thirds of the world’s population.
This element is used in matches, as a water softener, in special glasses for sodium lamps and in the production of fine china.
This element is a part of baking powder, is used to improve processed meat and cheese, in toothpaste and in some beverages.

In the Bible, this element was called “brimstone.”
This element is used in gunpowder, matches, insecticides and fungicides.
This element is an essential element for all life and is used in pharmaceuticals and as a laxative.
This element in acid form is a primary industrial chemical and is used in oil refining, wastewater processing, and mineral extraction, the manufacture of cellophane, rayon, in Portland cement and to make rubber tires.
This element is used to bleach paper, as a preservative, in gunpowder and in detergents.
This element will help balance the soil—making it the right pH.
The mineral pyrite (fool’s gold) has this element in it.
This smell from grapefruit, onions and garlic comes from this element.
The smell from skunk scent and rotten eggs comes from this element.
This element is essential for life, used in metabolic reactions and respiratory processes.
The vitamins biotin and thiamine have this element in them.
This element as a compound is a household and industrial bleach.
This element was used in ancient Greece, China and Egypt as fumigants, medicinal mixtures such as balms, antiparasitics. 
This element is present in the protein keratin, found in skin, hair and feathers.
This element is a component of all proteins.

This element is a halogen, its name coming from the Greek meaning “green-yellow”.
This element was used in World War I as a poison gas.
This element is one of the cheapest and best disinfectants, being more than three times as effective as a disinfectant of an equivalent concentration of bromine and more than six times effective than an equivalent concentration of iodine.
This element is the twenty-first most abundant element in the earth’s crust.
Because of its oxidizing potential, it is used in bleaches.
This element is extremely dangerous and poisonous for all life forms in its elemental state.
Combined with fluorine and carbon, this element may deplete the ozone layer in the atmosphere.
This element is used in making plastics, solvents for dry cleaning and metal degreasing, textiles, agrochemicals and pharmaceuticals, insecticides, dyestuffs, household cleaning products.
About 15,000 compounds with this element are being used commercially.[
This element is used to purify drinking water and swimming pool water. 
This element combined with sodium is essential for life.

This colorless, odorless gas is the third most common gas in the earth’s atmosphere almost twenty-four times more abundant than carbon dioxide.
This element is the cheapest non-reactive gas and is used in light bulbs, both fluorescent and incandescent.
As a laser, this element has a blue-green color.
This element comes from the Greek, meaning “lazy one” or “inactive one”.
In industry, this element is mostly used as an inert shielding gas in welding and other high-temperature industrial processes where ordinarily non-reactive substances become reactive, such as in graphite furnaces to prevent the graphite from burning.
This element is by far the cheapest of the noble gases since it is a byproduct of the production of liquid oxygen and liquid nitrogen.
Astronomers use this element to study what they call “dark matter” which may be what most of the universe is made of.
The American National Archives stores their most important documents such as the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution in cases filled with this element to preserve them.
This element is used in laboratory experiments, in medicine to destroy cancer cells, in incandescent lights, in scuba diving for dry suits, in missiles, in energy efficient windows, and in dating rocks.

This element is a soft-silvery white alkali metallic element.
This element’s name comes from the Arabic, meaning “plant ashes”.
When thrown into water, this element is extremely reactive and dangerous and burns with a violet flame.
In animals and humans, this element is critical for nerve transmission.
This element combined with sodium acts as a desiccant, a substance that dries something else. 
Fertilizers made with this element and a carbonate or a sulfate are commonly used.
Ions of this element are necessary for the function of all living cells, and are essential to nerve transmission and cardiac function.
A compound of this element is a salt substitute.
This element is very similar to sodium.
This element is used in gunpowder, fertilizer, to dissolve silver and gold, in the manufacture of glass, soap, color TV tubes, fluorescent lamps, textile dyes and pigments, and production of saccharin.
This element is used in inks, dyes, stains for a bright yellowish-red color, and explosives and fireworks.
A banana has this element in it.

This element’s name comes from the Latin meaning “chalk”.
Limestone, chalk, marble, and gypsum have this element in them.
This element is the lightest of the alkaline earth elements.
Sea shells are made of this element.
This element is essential for living organisms, in particular in cell physiology.
This element is a necessary element for life in nerve conduction, heartbeat, and muscle contractions.
This element is a soft gray metal and the fifth most abundant element by mass in the earth’s crust and in seawater.
This element is the most abundant metal by mass in many animals.
Compounds of this element are used for a multitude of purposes, including manufacturing cement and mortar, in the glass industry, in toothpastes, to detect the presence of carbon dioxide, as insecticides, in acetylene torches for welding, in the manufacture of plastics, for ice removal, and as a food additive.
Other compounds of this element are used for a swimming pool disinfectant, a bleaching agent, in deodorants, as a fungicide, a a liquid rocket propellant, in textile production, a yeast, in dental products, as fireworks and in cosmetics.
This element is a structural element for bones.

This element is present in most rare earth deposits and uranium compounds.
This element is silvery-white and is a transition element.
This element is used with aluminum is certain alloys and remains its major application.
This element is used in metal halide lights where large amounts of light resembling sunlight are needed.
This element as an alloy is used in revolvers, baseball bats, high-end bicycle frames, certain aerospace applications, Russian military aircraft, specifically the MiG21 and 29 because of its great strength.
This element is used in lasers specifically for dental work and in oil refineries as a tracing agent.
Titanium alloys are used more frequently than alloys of this element because titanium is less rare.
This element is named after a section of Europe.

This element has a low density and is a strong, lustrous and corrosion resistant.
Artificial hip joints are made with this element because it is light, strong and non-toxic.
This element is in razor blades, golf clubs, and rocket ships.
This element’s name stands for “strength”.
This element is in drills, knives, paint, hammers and saws.
The name of this element is derived from the name of the Greek gods who lived before Zeus.
This element is found in almost all living things.
This element is a photocatalyst, used to separate hydrogen from water and used in semiconductors.
This element is used in the manufacture of white pigments and polypropylene.
This element can be alloyed with iron, aluminum, vanadium, molybdenum and other elements to produce strong lightweight alloys for jet engines, missiles, and spacecraft.
This element is used in desalination plants, for medical prostheses, orthopedic implants, dental instruments and dental implants and mobile (cell) phones
This element has the highest strength to weight ratio of any metal, is light and corrosion resistant.
This element is not ferromagnetic and; as a result, if it has been used for dental implants, hip joints or to repair fractures in an individual, that person can still have MRIs.
This element literally interacts with the bone and becomes a part of it so that the implant can remain in place for years.

This element’s name comes from the Greek word meaning “red”.
For many years scientists thought this metal was chromium.
This element is a hard, silvery grey ductile, malleable element.
Many emeralds have this element in them, making them green.
This element is in an alloy in many tools and other products.
Alloys of this element with iron are hard, tough and wear-resistant.
This element is named after the German goddess for fertility and beauty.
This element, combined with a carbide and iron, is very strong, hard and wear-resistant.
The element occurs naturally in about sixty-five different minerals and fossil fuel deposits.
This element is probably a micronutrient in humans and mammals. Sea Slugs contain this element.
This element is contained in some mushrooms and makes them poisonous, yet it is an essential element for chickens and rats.
This element may help some people with Type 2 diabetes, but all vanadium compounds should be considered toxic.
This element was used in the chassis of the Ford Model-T
This element is a hard, silvery gray, ductile and malleable transition metal.
This element is produced from steel smelter (slag), from uranium mining, or from the dust of heavy oil.
This element is used as a catalyst for the production of sulfuric acid. 
In the ocean, this element is used by some ocean algae. 

An oxide of this element is in paints, glazes and green pigments.
This element, electroplated over nickel and a base such as iron or zinc produces a shiny silvery coating.
This element is a key element in stainless steel.
This element is a steely-gray, lustrous, hard metal that takes a high polish and has a high melting point.
This element is also odorless, tasteless, and malleable. 
The name of the element is derived from the Greek word meaning color because many of its compounds are intensely colored. 
This element is used in stainless steel, plated over other metals to prevent corrosion, as a wood preservative, to tan animal skins, as a catalyst, as magnetic tape used in audio recording and as a cleaning agent to clean laboratory equipment of any organic compound.
An oxide of this element was used by the Chinese 2000 years ago to coat weapons such as bronze crossbow bolts and steel swords found at the Terracotta Army.
This element is required in trace amounts for sugar and lipid metabolism.
This element is required in the human diet, but too much can be toxic.
The red color of rubies comes from this element.
This element is used in car bumpers.

This element is essential to iron and steel production and improves the workability of steel.
When alloyed with steel, this element is used in razor blades and other blades.
An oxide of this element is found in cave paintings that are 17,000 years old.
This element is used for purple pigments.
Alloyed with copper, this element makes a certain kind of bronze.
This element, combined with silicon and oxygen is used in jewelry as a semi-precious stone.
This element has been used in golf club putters.
This element is a silvery-gray metal resembling iron. 
This element is hard and very brittle, difficult to fuse, but easy to oxidize. 
This element and its common ions are paramagnetic.
This element is named for a region of Greece.
This element is a metal with important industrial metal alloy uses, particularly in stainless steels.
This element with phosphate is used as a treatment for rust and corrosion prevention on steel.
This element as a dioxide is used as the cathode (electron acceptor) material in standard and alkaline dry cell batteries and other batteries.
A World War 2 ear nickel had this element in it.
As enzymes, this element is used to detoxify free radicals and other functions.
Too much of this element can cause poisoning in mammals, causing neurological damage.
This element is an essential trace element for all known living organisms. 

Ancient beads made with this element in a meteoric form of this element have been found in Egypt.
This element has been used since ancient times and has an Age named after it. 
Alloys of this element are in tools, blades, cable, drilling bits and nails.
A pure form of this element is softer than aluminum.
This element is the most widely used of all the elements, being used in machine tools, automobiles, ships buildings, etc.
This element in the form of pyrite (a sulfide) is sometimes called “fool’s gold”.
This element is the most common element (by mass) forming the planet earth as a whole, forming much of earth's outer and inner core.
This element is the fourth most common element in the earth’s crust and is present in the rocky planets.
The elemental form of this element is found in meteors and meteorites.
The pure form of this element is softer than aluminum.
As the pure form of this element cools, it changes its structure (has different allotropes) and then at one point becomes magnetized.
When combined with carbon, this element can be one thousand times harder than the pure form.
A form of this element transports oxygen in our blood.
This element is essential for many life forms.
Catalysts of this element are used to produce ammonia and to convert carbon monoxide into fuels and lubricants.
Compounds of this element are used in sewage treatment, dyeing of cloth, as an additive in animal feed and in the manufacture of printed circuit boards.
The color of blood is due to the hemoglobin, a protein containing this element.
Common magnets are made of this element.

The name of this element comes from the German name for a house sprite because medieval miners blamed the sprite for the poisonous and troublesome nature of the typical ores of this metal.
This element is a hard, lustrous, silver-gray metal.
This element is used in superalloys for gas turbines and jet aircraft engines.
Alloyed with aluminum, tungsten, samarium, nickel, titanium, platinum, or chromium, this element is used for orthopedic implants, prosthetic hip and knee replacements, dental implants, high speed steel, and magnets.
This element is used in lithium ion battery cathodes.
Combined with Vitamin B12, this element is a nutrient.
An isotope of this element is highly radioactive and is in the fallout from a nuclear bomb detonation.
An oxide of this element has been called “king’s blue” and as a dye was highly valued.
An aluminum oxide of this element makes a purple pigment.
This element is magnetic at room temperature, as are iron, nickel and gadolinium.
A zinc oxide of this element makes a green pigment.
Forms of this element can be pink, red or black in color.
This element occurs naturally as only one stable isotope.
Another of its isotopes is a commercially important radioisotope, used as a radioactive tracer and in the production of gamma rays.
This element is used in external beam radiotherapy sterilization of medical supplies and medical waste, radiation treatment of foods for sterilization (cold pasteurization). 
This element is used in filters for spectrographic measurements.

This element is hard silvery white ductile, malleable metallic element with a slight golden tinge.
This element is chiefly used in electroplating and as a catalyst in organic synthesis.
This element is plated over iron to prevent rust and brass to make it colorless.
This element is a component of stainless steel and superalloys.
This element is in the enzymes of some microorganisms which makes the metal an essential nutrient for them.
This element is in meteors and meteorites and one of the major deposits is located in Sudbury, Canada which is where it is thought there were showers of meteors in the past.
The use of this element, as a natural meteoric alloy with iron, has been traced as far back as 3500 BC.
Powdered forms of this element are more reactive than the metallic form.
This element is one of the four elements that are magnetic around room temperature the others being iron, cobalt and gadolinium.
This element has five stable isotopes.
This element was named after a mischievous German sprite.  
Along with cadmium, this element is used in batteries.
This element is used in jewelry but can be a skin allergen. 
This element is used in car bumpers, under the chromium.
This element has a coin named after it.

This element is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity.
Brass is an alloy of this element and zinc.
This element is one of three metallic elements that are not grey or silvery.
The major applications of this element are in electrical wires (60%), roofing and plumbing (20%) and industrial machinery (15%).
This element is used in jewelry, in printed circuit boards, in the rotors in motors, in lightning rods, as a wood preservative and in electromagnets. 
This metallic element and its alloys have been used for thousands of years. 
In Roman times, this element was mined on the island of Cyprus, thus the origin of the name of the metal.
This element is used as a chemical agent that stops bacteria from reproducing, while not necessarily harming them otherwise.
This element is used to prevent barnacles and mussels from attaching to ship hulls and piers.
This element has an Age named after it.
Allowing this element with tin produces bronze which has been used for more than 5,000 years.
This element was used in early photography, to plate the Statue of Liberty, and many ships hulls, including the ships of Christopher Columbus.
This element is used as a fungicide and a wood preservative.
 This element is a component of other proteins associated with the processing of oxygen and is an essential nutrient, but can be toxic in higher quantities.
An American coin is made from this element. 

This element is a ductile, bluish-white element used in making galvanized iron, brass and other alloys.
Common bolts are galvanized with this metallic element to help keep them from rusting.
The name of this element comes from the German word, meaning “tooth-like”, “pointed”, or “jagged” because metallic crystals of this metal have a needlelike appearance.
This element is the 4th most element in use in the world.
This element is easy to cast because it has a low melting point.
This element is used in batteries and in some hearing aids.
Brass is an alloy of this element and copper.
This element is of exceptional biological and public health importance; a deficiency of this element affects about two billion people in the developing world and is associated with many diseases, contributing to the death of about 800,000 children worldwide per year.
This element at some temperatures is diamagnetic, that is it creates a magnetic field in opposition to an externally applied magnetic field.
This element as an alloy is used in die-casting in the automotive, electrical, and hardware industries.
Alloyed with aluminum, this element is almost as strong as steel, but almost as malleable as plastic.
This element is used in deodorants, dietary supplements, and shampoos.
This element is used in luminescent paints.
An American penny now has more of this element in it than copper.

In tropical climates, this element is liquid at room temperatures.
This element in a patented alloy with indium and tin remains liquid down to minus 2.2 degrees Fahrenheit and minus 19 degrees. Celsius.
This element is used in semiconductor crystals when high speeds are required.
This element is in most light-emitting diodes.
This element is found in aluminum and zinc ores.
This element is used in pharmaceuticals, microwave circuitry, high temperature thermometers and infrared applications.
This element is used in low noise microwave preamplifiers for cell phones.
A nitrate form of this element has been used to treat bone cancer.
In the body, this element, as a compound with arsenic acts like iron, but because the compound has no biological use, it can be used to kill cancer cells since they mistake it for iron.
Salts of a radioisotope of this element are used in PET-CT scans because the salts concentrate where there is rapid cell division as in cancer cells and show up on the scan. 
This element as a solid metal fractures like glass.
This element does not crystallize in any of the normal crystal structures. 
Compounds of this element are used in high-powered infrared laser diodes and light-emitting diodes. 
The Blu-Ray disc uses a laser made with this element.

Dmitri Mendeleev, the creator of the Periodic Table, predicted this element would be discovered.  He named it “eka-silicon”.
The first diodes and transistors were made of this element.
The main uses of this element are in fiber-optics and infrared optics and LEDs and phjotooltaic cell for space exploration.
Lenses made with this element are opaque to the eye, but transparent to infrared light; therefore, it is used in thermal imaging cameras, in the military and fire-fighting applications for detecting hot spots, for night vision systems, sometimes used in cars.
A compound of this element is used in semiconductors for use in high-speed integrated circuits.
This element is used in solar panels because of its reflective capability. 
This element is a metalloid that is hard, lustrous and silvery white.
This element is used to create nanowires.
This element is not thought to be essential to health, but some cultures, including the Japanese use it as a medicinal salt.
This element is used in an alloy with silver to make non-tarnishing silver.
This element is named after a country.

This element in a compound with copper can be used as a green artist’s pigment.
In a compound with copper this element can be used as a rat poison.
This element is poisonous when vaporized.
When used in chicken feed, this element helps promote growth.
In minute quantities, this element may be a nutrient.
The main use for the metalloid is for strengthening the alloys of copper and lead, such as in car batteries.
This element is a trace element (dopant) in semiconductor electronic devices.
This element in a compound with gallium is the most common semiconductor in use after silicon semiconductors which are used in integrated circuits. These circuits are much faster (but also much more expensive) than those made with silicon. 
Up to 2% of this element is used in lead alloys for lead shots and bullets.
With gallium, this element can be used in laser diodes and LEDs to directly convert electricity into light. 
This element is used in medicine as a treatment for acute leukemia, psoriasis, and with iodine in PET scans to detect tumors.
Some species of bacteria use this element for respiratory functions.
This element has been used as a pesticide, herbicide and a wood preservative, but because of its toxicity, it is now used less frequently.

The name of this element comes from the Greek word meaning “moon”.
This element is an essential nutrient in small quantities for cellular functioning.
This element is a non-metallic element resembling sulfur and tellurium.
A plant called “locoweed” requires this element, but the weed produces a neurotoxin that is a danger to livestock.
This element gives a red glaze to pottery.
This element is used in the ink for photocopiers and laser printers and glassmaking.
Brazil nuts have a lot of this element in them.
This element is used instead of lead in a brass that is called: “Envirobrass”.
The largest commercial use of this element is in the production of glass. These compounds confer a red color to glass and counteract the normal greenish color in glass.
This element is used in solar cells and light meters, surge protectors, the toning of photographic prints, fabricating quantum dots and in the production of rubber.
This element is toxic in large quantities, but as a trace element it is an essential nutritional element and is necessary for thyroid functioning and cellular functioning.

The element gets its name from the Greek word meaning “smell (or stench) of the he-goats”.
This element is a dark-reddish toxic liquid.
This element is obtained from ocean water.
This element is used in dyes, antiknock compounds, as a flame retardant on clothing, as an emulsifier in many citrus-flavored soft drinks (for example, Mountain Dew).
This element is also used to reduce mercury pollution from coal-fired power plants. 
This element is used in drilling fluids for drilling for gas or oil.
This element is used as a disinfectant in spas in place of chlorine because it is more stable than chlorine in hot water. 
As a flame retardant, this element may be responsible for ozone depletion.
Organic compounds of this element are made by certain forms of algae.
This element in nature usually occurs as a salt.
This element is somewhat similar to chlorine and iodine.
This element used to be used as a sedative, but it was found that it was toxic.

This element’s name comes from the Greek word for “hidden one”.
This element is colorless, odorless and tasteless and occurs in trace amounts in the atmosphere.
The official measurement of the length of a meter from 1960 to 1983was defined in terms of the red-orange spectral line of a form of this element.
This element is used in high-powered gas lasers which are sometimes used for nuclear fusion experiments and another form of this element is used in MRIs and CT scans.
Breathing air containing 50% of this gas and 50% oxygen is comparable to scuba diving at a depth of 30 m (100 ft) and can cause narcosis, similar to nitrogen narcosis.
This element glows bluish-white, making it used for photography and lighting.
This element is used in fluorescent lights instead of argon because of its white light, but this element is much more expensive than argon. 
Often “neon” advertising signs and high power laser light shows use this element because the red color is brighter when using this element.
A radioactive form of this element is produced by the fission of uranium and plutonium such as in nuclear bomb testing and nuclear reactors.

This element is a soft-white silvery metallic element resembling potassium.
This element gets its name from the Latin word for “red”.
This element is sometimes the purple color in fireworks. 
At one time atomic clocks were made with element, until it was discovered that cesium clocks were more accurate. 
This element is used in frequency oscillators to maintain frequency accuracy in cell site transmitters and other electronic transmitting, networking, and test equipment in the telecommunications industry and for GPS standards.
A radioactive form of this element is used in PET scans to find brain tumors.
This element may have possibilities in the treatment of manic depression and depression since dialysis patients without enough of this element are often depressed.
This element is used in magnetometers to measure magnetic fields. 
This element is used as a “getter” to remove small amounts of the remaining gas in vacuum tubes.
This element is highly reactive and reacts violently with water.

This element is a soft silver-white or yellowish metallic element that is highly reactive chemically.
This element will ignite spontaneously.
Some compounds of this element may increase bone growth.
An alloy of this element and aluminum becomes much harder when it is flexed. 
This element, combined with aluminum in paint glows in the dark.
This element is named after a Scottish village.
This element is used in flares and fireworks and produces a red color.
This element was used in the production of sugar from sugar beets for many years. 
The primary use for compounds of this element is in the glass for color television cathode ray tubes to prevent X-ray emission.
A compound of this element has a high refractive index greater than that of a diamond which makes it useful in a variety of optics applications, but it is soft and doesn’t make a very good diamond imitation.
A compound of this element is sometimes used in toothpaste for sensitive teeth.
A compound of this element is used in the treatment of osteoporosis.
A compound of this element is used in outdoor 3D displays as a “screen”. 
A radioactive form of this element is used for bone pain in people with metastatic bone cancer.
This element is an alkaline earth metal.

This element was named after a village in Sweden.
This element is a rare trivalent element that is found in gadolinite, a silicate mineral.
This element extends the life of spark plugs.
This element, combined with barium and copper and cool it with liquid nitrogen, becomes a superconductor (YCBO); and if you try to put a magnet on top of it the magnet just floats in midair.
Scientists have bounced a laser of a garnet made of this element and aluminum off the special device that the Apollo astronauts put on the moon.
This element is an irritant to skin and eyes and a fire and explosion hazard.
This element is used in stress gauges to monitor ground deformations from earthquakes and explosions.
This element is may replace magnesium in infrared decoy flares to repel surface-to-air missiles or air-to-air missiles. 
This element is found in low concentration among many other rare earth elements.

This element as an oxide is used as a pigment for paints, an abrasive and in the manufacture of refractory crucibles, containers for heating substances to high temperatures to change the direction of light.
A form of this element is used in ceramic knives.
This element is used in tubes for nuclear fuel pellets, incendiary bombs, ball bearings and grinding wheels.
This element is a lustrous, grayish-white, soft, ductile and malleable metal which is solid at room temperature.
The name of this element comes from the Middle French word for gargling and from the Arabic word for a green gemstone.
This element has excellent resistance to corrosion; therefore, it is often used as an alloying agent in materials that are exposed to aggressive environments, such as surgical appliances, light filaments and watch cases.
This element is used in bombs and other explosive devices.
This element and an oxide form are used in space vehicle parts for their resistance to heat.
This element is also a component in some abrasives, such as grinding wheels and sandpaper. 
High temperature parts such as combustors, blades and vanes in jet engines and are often being protected by thin ceramic layers of this element and yttrium layers.
This element’s main uses are as an opacifier, giving a white, opaque appearance to ceramic materials, as a mold for molten metals, in laboratory crucibles, in metallurgical furnaces and as a refractory material. 
This element can be dangerous at high temperatures because it can react with oxygen and because in fuel rods for nuclear generators, it can react with water to produce hydrogen. 
This metallic element resembles titanium. 

This element is used in alloy steels and is a superconductor at low temperatures.
This element was named after one of the daughters of Tantalus.
Rocket nozzles are made of this element.
This element is used by body piercers.
This element is used in jewelry and coins because when anodized (coated) on metal, it forms a rainbow of colors.
This element is sometimes called “columbium”.
This element is used mostly in alloys, especially in steel because it improves the strength of the steel.
This element as an alloy of steel is used in gas pipelines.
This element is a soft grey, ductile element.
This element was first used commercially, in incandescent lamp filaments, but was replaced by tungsten which has a higher melting point.
This element combined with tin keeps exhibiting superconductivity in the presence of strong electric currents and magnetic fields, making it the first material to support the high currents and fields necessary for useful high-power magnets and electrically powered machinery. 
This element is used in the production of long multi-strand cables that are wound into coils to create large, powerful electromagnets for rotating machinery, particle accelerators, or particle detectors
This element resembles the element tantalum.

This element in steel alloys (two or more metals combined by fusion or electro deposition) gives great strength and heat resistance.
This element combined with a sulfide is an excellent high pressure lubricant.
This element is used in medical imaging because an isotope (a form of an element, having the same number of protons, but different numbers of neutrons) that decays into technetium.
The name of this element comes from the Latin and the Ancient Greek word for “lead”; however, this is a separate element from lead.
This element does not occur naturally as a free metal on earth, but rather in various oxidation states in minerals. 
The free element, is a silvery metal with a grey cast, has the sixth-highest melting point of any element.
This element forms hard, stable carbides in alloys, and for this reason most of world production of the element (about 80%) is in making many types of steel alloys, including high strength alloys and superalloys.
The ability of this element to withstand extreme temperatures without significantly expanding or softening makes it useful in applications that involve intense heat, including the manufacture of armor, aircraft parts, electrical contacts, industrial motors and filaments.
This element is sometimes used as a substitute for tungsten because it is less dense.
This element as a powder is used as a fertilizer for some plants, such as cauliflower because it helps “fix” nitrogen in the soil so plants can use it..
Pork, lamb and beef liver each have approximately 1.5 parts per million of molybdenum. Other significant dietary sources include green beans, eggs, sunflower seeds, wheat flour, lentils, cucumbers and cereal grain.
A deficiency of this element may be a cause of esophageal cancer and is being tested as a treatment for age related macular degeneration.  

This element has the lowest atomic number without any stable isotopes; therefore, every form of it is radioactive.
This element is not found in nature, but is obtained by the fission (breaking apart) of uranium or
the bombardment (directing high radiation against) of molybdenum.
This element is bone seeking and can detect where bone growth is occurring.
This element got its name because it was thought to be the first of the non-naturally occurring elements to be created; however, some of this element occurs in pitchblende. (Uranium oxide).
This element is used in nuclear medicine for a wide variety of diagnostic tests and as a catalyst.
This element is used as a gamma ray-free source of beta particles, high speed electrons or positrons. 
The discovery of this element in giant red stars which are millions of years old helped bolster the theory that stars can produce heavier elements.
Mendeleev predicted this element and called it eka-manganese.
This element is named after the Greek word for “artificial”.
Adding a small amount of a compound of this element into water prevents steel that is placed in that water from corroding.

This element was named after the ancient word for Russia- a section that now includes Russia, Ukraine and Belarus.
This element is used in jewelry to plate base metals with a pewter-like shine.
This element as a chloride is a vivid red.
This element has been used in experimental solar cells.
This element is used in wear-resistant electrical contacts and in the production of thick-film resistors. 
This element is sometime used in platinum and palladium alloys to harden them and in other superalloys.
This element is used as a catalyst to remove hydrogen sulfide from oil and for pharmaceutical applications.

This element is used to electroplate microscopes and instrument parts.
This element is plated on cheap costume jewelry, making it look like silver or platinum.
This element is used in automobile catalytic converters. (devices for converting pollutants into forms of nitrogen)
This element is usually alloyed with platinum or palladium and used in high-temperature and corrosion-resistant coatings.
This element is named after one its rose-colored compounds and comes from the Greek word meaning “rose”.
White gold is often plated with a thin rhodium layer to improve its optical impression and sterling silver is often plated with this element for tarnish resistance.
In 1979, the Guinness Book of World Records gave Paul McCartney a disc plated with element or being history's all-time best-selling songwriter and recording artist. 
This element is a so-called noble metal resistant to corrosion, found in platinum- or nickel ores together with the other members of the platinum group. 
Alloys of this element are used in furnace windings, bushings for glass fiber production, thermocouple elements, electrodes for aircraft spark plugs, and laboratory crucibles. Other uses include: electric contact material because of its low electrical resistance and as a filter in mammography systems because of the characteristic X-rays it produces.

This element is used chiefly as a catalyst (substance accelerating a chemical reaction without itself being affected) in dental and other alloys.
This element will absorb nine hundred times its volume of hydrogen gas and could be used to store hydrogen.
This element is used in automobile catalytic converters.
This element resembles silver, but is much more expensive.
This is a rare earth element of the platinum group and is used in the production of white gold.
This element is named after an asteroid and is the epithet of the Greek goddess Athena.
This element has the lowest melting point and is the least dense of the members of the platinum group- PGMs. (A quarter of all goods manufactured today either contain PGMs or have a significant part in their manufacturing process played by PGMs)
Over half of the supply of this element goes into catalytic converters, which convert up to 90% of harmful gases from auto exhaust.
In a compound with chlorine this element can oxidize large amounts of carbon monoxide gas, and is used in carbon monoxide detectors. 
This element is also used in electronics, dentistry, medicine, hydrogen purification, chemical applications, and groundwater treatment. 
This element plays a key role in the technology used for fuel cells.
The largest deposits of this element are found in the United States, Russia, South Africa and Canada.
This element is also used in jewelry, in dentistry, watch-making, in blood sugar test strips, in aircraft spark plugs and in the production of surgical instruments and electrical contacts. 
This element is also used to make professional transverse flutes, flutes that one plays from the side. 
This element has sometimes been used as a monetary currency.

This symbol of the element’s name comes from the Indo-European word for “grey” or “shining and the element’s name comes from the Anglo-Saxon word for it. 
This element is a soft, white, lustrous transition metal.
This element has the highest electrical conductivity of any element
This element has the highest thermal conductivity of any metal. 
This element occurs naturally in its pure, free form, as an alloy with gold and other metals, and in minerals such as argentite and chloragyrite.
Most of this element is produced as a byproduct of copper, gold, lead, and zinc refining.
This element has long been valued as a precious metal, and it is used as an investment, to make ornaments, jewelry, high-value tableware, utensils, and currency coins. 
This element is also used in electrical contacts and conductors, in mirrors and in the catalysis of chemical reactions. 
Compounds of this element are used in photographic film, as disinfectants and pesticides.
This element is a very ductile, malleable, is slightly harder than gold
This element was used as a coinage metal since around 500bc until 1900ad, and it was used in much of the world as a standard for money.
This element has a brilliant white metallic luster that can take a high degree of polish.
This element has one of the highest optical reflectivities.
Along with iron, this element is one of the most useful elements. 
This element is used in radio-frequency engineering, particularly at VHF and higher frequencies, where improves electrical conductivity of the necessary parts, including wires.
Combined with a derivative of seaweed, this element is in a range of products designed to prevent infections as part of wound management procedures, particularly applicable to burn victims, and its antibacterial properties were known even to Hippocrates, the father of modern medicine.
This element combined with other elements is used in solders, explosives, mirrors, optics to make polyester, in water nuclear generators and a myriad of other uses. 

This element is a bluish-white, malleable ductile (capable of being hammered out into thin sheets or wire) metal resembling zinc.
This metal is resistant to corrosion. This element coats bolts as in the bolts in an airplane’s landing gear because this element helps prevent rust.
This element is used in plating and making certain alloys.
This element, along with nickel is used in batteries.
This element, like lead and mercury, accumulates in the body and in the environment and is quite harmful. 
A sulfide of this element makes a yellow pigment; a selenide of this element makes a red pigment. These compounds are prized by painters, but now the painters should use protection to prevent poisoning.
An oxide of this element is in the phosphors of television tubes; these phosphors are black, white, and blue.
As a laser, this element, along with helium is used in fluorescence microscopes and various laboratory experiments. The quantum dots that are formed emit bright luminescence.  The color of this luminescence can be green, yellow or red depending on the particle size. Colloidal solutions of those particles are used for imaging of biological tissues and solutions.
This element is insoluble in water and is not flammable; however, in its powdered form it may burn and release toxic fumes.
This element is used as a barrier to control neutrons in nuclear reactors.
Some simple marine animals (diatoms) have need of this element.
This element’s name comes from the Greek mythological character who, it was believed, was the founder of Thebes.

This element is a rare true metal element, soft, white easily fusible (melted) and malleable. (capable of being shaped and extended by hammering.)
This element is named for the strong spectral (produced by an array of light emissions) emission that is a bright blue.
This element is a good conductor of electricity and makes a good gasket (a ring for placing around a joint to make it watertight).
This element is so soft it can be cut with a knife.
This element is often found in zinc ore.
This element is used in sodium vapor lights, superconductors, control rods for nuclear reactors, as a calibration material, in cryogenics, in ultra-high vacuum situations, 
This element is used in liquid crystal displays and touchscreens, and this use largely determines how much is mined.
This element is widely used in thin-films to form lubricated layers (During World War II, it was widely used to coat bearings in high-performance aircraft) and now in microprocessors as a thermal interface material.
This element is also used for making low melting point alloys, and is a component in some lead-free solders.
A radioactive form of this element is used to differentiate osteomyelitis from ulcers, in antibiotic therapy, and to monitor the activity of white blood cells in order to locate new infections. 
This element’s melting is a defining fixed point on the international temperature scale.
An alloy of this element with gallium and tin is liquid, non-toxic and; therefore, a substitute for mercury in some instances.
Even though this element’s name sounds as if it is named for the name of a large country, it is not. It is named for a dark blue-violet color.

This element is a low-melting, malleable, ductile element that looks like silver.
This element is used in plating and alloys.
This element in a form of an alloy with lead is used as a solder for joining pipes or electric circuits.
This element bonds to iron and is used for coating lead or zinc to prevent corrosion.
Bronze, which has been used since antiquity-since 3000bc, is an alloy with this element and copper.
The symbol of this element is from the Latin word for this element.
The origin and meaning of this element’s name are unknown; however, the name has a Germanic root. 
When steel containers are plated with this element, these containers are widely used for food preservation, and this forms a large part of the market for this element. 
Pewter, which is an alloy of 85–90% of this element and copper, antimony and lead, was used for vessels and flatware until the 20th century. (Pewter today does not have lead in it.)
This element has very low toxicity.
When a bar of this element is bent, a crackling sound known as the cry of this element can be heard due to its twin-like crystalline nature. 
This element melts at a low temperature
Children’s play soldiers used to be made of this element.
This element was used one of the first superconductors, is used for cladding nuclear fuel rods, is used for improving PVC (a type of plastic) pipes that are used for plumbing, and is used in the making of window glass.
With niobium, this element is used to make a very strong magnet.
This element is the element with the greatest number of stable isotopes—ten.
Combined in a compound with fluorine, this element is used to help prevent dental cavities.
The name of this element has come to mean any sort of sheet metal as in cans, foil, and roof materials.

This element is a brittle, lustrous, metallic element occurring free in nature.
This element is used in alloys.
If you add this element to lead, it makes lead harder.
Because this element expands when it solidifies, Gutenberg invented movable type, using this element for making books able to be printed quickly.
The name of this element comes from the Greek meaning “not alone” since it is always mixed with other chemicals, and from the Arabic word meaning “brilliant”.
This element is used in cosmetics, paint and glass art crafts. 
Along with lead, this element is used in bullets, solders, and bearings.
This element “sings” with beautiful pinging noises when cooled.
This element is used for flame retardant in children’s clothing, aircraft and automobile seat covers.
This element is used in lead-acid batteries and alloys such as those used in pipe organs..
For a long time, people thought that this element was lead, as an alloy for solders, bullets and bearings,
This element is used to remove small bubbles from glass, particularly from TV screens, in infrared detectors, in the semiconductor industry and in the production of silicon wafers .
In medicine, this element is used as an emetic (to induce vomiting) and as a skin conditioner for ruminants, such as pigs.
Inhalation of this element’s dust is harmful and in certain cases may be fatal; in small doses, this element causes headaches, dizziness, and depression. Larger doses such as prolonged skin contact may cause dermatitis, or damage the kidneys and the liver, causing violent and frequent vomiting, leading to death in a few days.

The name of this element comes from the Latin word for “earth.”
This element is a rare, lustrous, brittle, crystalline substance, resembling sulfur.
 In nature this element is usually combined with gold, silver or other high atomic number elements.
This element can be found in its native form as a crystal.
This element is far more common in the universe than on earth.
This element is a brittle, mildly toxic, rare, silver-white metalloid that looks similar to tin, but it is chemically related to selenium and sulfur.
This element is primarily used in alloys, especially in steel and copper to improve machinability. 
This element is used in solar panels and as a semiconductor material. 
Fungi can incorporate this element in place of sulfur and selenium into amino acids.
This element can be used to color ceramics, in the production of glass fibers for telecommunications, electric blasting caps.
This element is used in glass fibers for telecommunication and for X-ray detectors and phase-change memory chips.
Rubber can be vulcanized with this element to improve heat resistance.
This element can be used to identify a diphtheria bacterium.
This element is used in the media layer of several types of rewritable optical discs, including, including re-writable compact discs (CD-RW), re-writable video discs (DVD_RW) and rewritable Blu-Ray discs.
In humans, this element is partly metabolized into a compound with a garlic-like odor which is exhaled in the breath of victims of toxicity or exposure.
A town in Colorado is named after this element.

The name of this element is from Greek, meaning “violet” or “purple”, due to the color of its elemental gas. 
This greyish-white crystalline, non-metallic element is used as an antiseptic.
A radioactive form of this element is used to treat goiter
This element and its compounds are primarily used in nutrition, in the production of acetic acid and for certain polymers.
This elements fairly high atomic number, low toxicity, and ease at which it attaches to organic compounds have made it a part of many X-Ray contrast materials for CT scans in modern medicine. 
This element has only one stable isotope.
A number of this element’s radioisotopes are also used in medical applications.
This element is in oceans and brine pools. 
This element is the heaviest essential element, being used widely in by life in biological functions. (Only one other heavier element, tungsten is used by organisms.)
A deficiency of this element affects about two billion people and can cause mental disabilities and also affect land animals.
This element is required by higher animals, which use it to synthesize thyroid hormones that contain the element. 
The radioisotope of this element can be concentrated in the thyroid gland and is very carcinogenic.
This element is used as a disinfectant, as a nutritional supplement for both plants and animals, as a nutritional additive to table salt (sodium chloride), in traditional photographic film, and in cloud seeding to produce rain.

This element was thought to be inert, but was found that it forms compounds, especially with fluorine.
This element is used in incandescent lights that can burn hotter, brighter and can help create a parallel beam of light used in IMAX projectors and this element is used in strobe lights.
A radioactive form of this element is used to study lung, heart, and brain function and blood flow.
The name of this element comes from the Greek word for “strange”, “foreign” or “guest”.
This element is a colorless, heavy odorless noble gas.
This element is used to monitor compliance with nuclear test ban treaties and to confirm nuclear tests.
The studying of the isotope ratios of this element is an important tool for studying the early history of the Solar System and gamma rays.
This element is beginning to be used for brain injuries because it acts as a protectant.
The first laser was pumped by a gun using this element.
This element is the propellant for ion thrusters in spacecraft especially for deep space probes. 
This element can be used as a general anesthetic, as a treatment for brain injuries, in MRI machines, as lasers, and as an oxidizing agent in analytical chemistry.

This element’s name comes from the Latin word for “sky blue”.
This is a highly reactive soft, silvery gold metallic element of the alkali metal group.
This element is used in photoelectric cells and in its radioactive form for radiation therapy.
This element is used in atomic clocks.  The current definition of a second is measured by 300 clocks containing this element.
This element is used in oil-well drilling.
A compound of this element with iodine is used as a scintillator for the detection of protons and alpha particles.
This element is one of only five elements that are near liquid at room temperature.
This element is used in low-power devices that convert heat energy to electrical energy.
This element is also used in the catalytic conversion of sulfur dioxide into sulfur trioxide in the in the production of sulfuric acid. 
This element can light spontaneously in air and is explosive in water.
This element has been used in cancer treatment, sterilization of food and surgical equipment, and measuring the density of rock formations
This element is the most electropositive stable element.

This element is a whitish, malleable, active metallic element used in compounds for killing rodents, certain medicines, paints and dyes.
The name of this element comes from the Greek word meaning “heavy”.
A compound of this element is a fluorescent blue gemstone that is California’s state gemstone.
This element is very heavy and reactive and, therefore, is never found in its pure form.
This element is opaque to X-Rays and is used in X-Ray radiocontrast elements.
Soluble compounds are poisonous and are sometimes used as rat poisons.
This element in compounds is used as a pigment in paints and varnishes, coating fluorescent lamps and paper, and as a drilling fluid in oil and gas wells.
In fireworks this element produces a green color.
This element is used in superconductors (YBCO) and in vacuum tubes, to remove unwanted gases. 
This element combined with aluminum is used to weld railroad tracks together.
This element is used in glassmaking, in optics, as a bleaching agent and as green tracer ammunition. 

The name of this element comes from the Greek word meaning “to escape notice”.
This element is a soft, malleable, malleable, ductile silvery-white rare earth trivalent element, usually found in combination with cerium.
This element, in compounds, is used in lighters and torches, as additives in glass, in studio lighting and projection.
Compounds of this element are used in electron cathodes and scintillators. These scintillators are already widely used commercially in detectors of neutrons or gamma rays.
A medication with this element in it is used to treat renal (kidney) failure.
This element is used as an electron dense tracer in molecular biology.  
Massive quantities of this metal are used in the batteries of hybrid cars.
Small amounts of this element in steel improve its malleability, resistance to impact, and ductility and an addition of this element to molybdenum decreases its hardness and sensitivity to temperature variations. 
Small amounts of this element are present in many pool products to remove the phosphates that feed algae. 
Various compounds of this element and other rare-earth elements (oxides, chlorides, etc.) are components of various catalysts, such as petroleum cracking catalysts.
 A compound of this element is used in radiometric dating is used to estimate age of rocks and ores.
Alloys with this element are capable of storing up to 400 times their own volume of hydrogen gas in a reversible adsorption process and the heat energy is released may male these alloys used in energy conservation systems.
Crystals of a compound of this element are used as electron emission sources for electron microscopes and Hall effect thrusters (used for space propulsion). 
A compound with this element and is an essential component of a heavy fluoride glass. This glass has superior transmittance in the infrared range and is therefore used for fiber-optical communication systems. 
Compounds of this element are used in special optical glasses, such as infrared-absorbing glass, as well as in cameras and telescopes.

This element is named after the Roman goddess of agriculture and a dwarf planet.
This element is a steel-grey ductile metallic element found only in combinations.
This element is almost as abundant as copper.
This element is pyrophoric- capable of igniting spontaneously in air.
This element is used in lighter flints along with another rare earth element.
This element, along with magnesium, aluminum or tungsten in alloys is used for welding electrodes.
This element is used as a catalytic converter in motor vehicles for CO emissions.
An oxide of this element is added to Diesel fuel to reduce CO emissions, as a cracking catalyst in petroleum refining, as a catalyst in self-cleaning ovens where it is incorporated into the oven walls, and for precision polishing of optical components.
A compound of this element along with a compound of titanium gives a golden yellow color to glass and allows for selective absorption of ultraviolet light.
 A compound of this element is considered one of the most efficient agents for precision polishing of optical components, for the manufacturing of glass, both as a component and as a decolorizer.
A compound of this element provides pigments with light fastness and prevents clear polymers from darkening in sunlight and this element is also an essential component of phosphors used in TV screens and fluorescent lamps.
Tests to evaluate the use of an oxide of this in fuel cells using oxides may prove fruitful.
An oxide of this element is used in hydrogen production.
Alloys of this element with aluminum, steel, improve the strength and helps prevent corrosion, added to iron, it makes it more malleable and helps improve the casting and heat resistance ability of magnesium.  
Alloys of this element are used in permanent magnets and in tungsten electrodes for gas tungsten arc welding.
As a drug, a compound of this element is used as an anti-emetic drug.
This element is also used in organic chemistry as a primary standard for quantitative analysis. 

This element comes from the Greek word meaning “green”.
This element is used to create daylight (white light) for motion picture filming.
This element along with neodymium is used in “didymium” eyeglasses that glassblowers and welders use because the glasses make the flame look dull blue rather than blinding yellow.
This element is a soft, silvery, malleable, ductile metal.
This element is paramagnetic at any temperature.
As an alloy with magnesium this metal is used to create high-strength metals that are used in aircraft engines. 
This element is used to color cubic zirconia yellow-green to simulate the mineral peridot.
This element’s compounds are used in carbon arc lights which are used in the motion picture industry.
This element, combined with silicon can slow down a light pulse.
This element alloyed with nickel has allowed scientists to approach within one thousandth of a degree of absolute zero.
Combined with fluorine, this element is an optical amplifier that can magnify a light pulse without turning it into an electric pulse first.
This element, combined with an oxide of cerium is used as an oxidation catalyst.
This element combined with iron is used as “flint” in lighter, torch starters, and fire starters.

This trivalent element is a member of the rare earth series and is found along with others of the rare earth series in mischmetal, i.e., mixed metal. 
This metal has many uses, including in a device to hold earring on, in lightweight headphones, in oil filters to trap metal fragment and in motors, especially tiny ones.
This element can filter out some of the yellow color in incandescent lighting, making the light appear more like daylight by filtering out the yellow light.
This element as a compound is used in automobile rear view mirrors to reduce glare and as a colorant in enamels.
Magnets made with this element are the most powerful permanent magnets known.
This element is used in cryocoolers. (Coolers that cool to a very low temperature)
This element is used to promote plant growth and, often in China, as fertilizer.
This element combined with samarium is useful for dating rocks and meteorites. 
The size and strength of volcanic eruption can be predicted by scanning for isotopes of this element. (Small and large volcanic eruptions produce lava with different isotope composition.) 
This element, used in lasers as in the hand held lasers and green laser pointers, in warheads to detect how density, temperature and pressure react inside the warhead, 

This is a rare earth, metallic trivalent element named after the Titan who taught humans various arts. According to the myth, he stole fire from Olympus and was punished by having his liver eaten everyday by an eagle and every night the liver would grow back.  Luckily for him Hercules freed him.
All of this element’s isotopes are radioactive.
Most of this element is used only for research purposes.
This element is used in some luminous paints (phosphors). This paint is used in signal lights because this isotope does not cause aging of the phosphor, as alpha emitters do, and therefore the light emission is stable for a few years.
In atomic batteries, the beta particles emitted by this element are converted into electric current by sandwiching a small source of this element between two semiconductor plates. These batteries have a useful lifetime of about five years. 
This element is also used to measure the thickness of materials by evaluating the amount of radiation from a source of this element that passes through the sample. 
This element has possible future uses in portable X-ray sources, and as auxiliary heat or power sources for space probes and satellites. 

This element may have been named for the Russian discoverer, for the ancient Iraqi city, or for the mineral containing it.
This element, combined with cobalt, is used in magnets that can operate at higher temperatures have high permanent magnetization, which is about 10,000 times that of iron and is second only to that of neodymium magnets.
This element is used in electric guitar pickups, headphones, and small motors such as in a solar-powered electric aircraft, called the Solar Challenger.   
In its usual oxidized form, this element is added to ceramics and glasses where it increases absorption of infrared light.
This element is used in lighter flints.
A radioactive form of this element is used to kill cancer cells in the treatment of lung cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer and osteosarcoma. Its trade name is Quadramet.
This element is used in the control rods of nuclear reactors.
This element was used in one of the first lasers, but did not find practical applications; however, another laser with this element became an X-Ray laser with many applications. 
An isotope of this element can show the age and origin of rocks and meteorites.
This element as catalysts assist decomposition of plastics, dechlorination of pollutants such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), as well as the dehydration and dehydrogenation of ethanol.

This element is a ductile metal with a hardness similar to that of lead. 
This element has the second lowest melting point and the lowest density of all lanthanides.
This element becomes a superconductor when cooled to very cold temperatures.
This element is produced by nuclear fission. 
This element is used in the control rods of nuclear reactors, and as a semiconductor.
This element is not found in nature as a free element, but with various other minerals, containing the rare earth elements.
This element is a dopant, a trace element inserted into a substance to alter electrical or optical properties, in some types of glass, in lasers and other optoelectronic devices. 
The oxides of this element are widely used as red or blue phosphors in television sets and fluorescent lamps. 
This element is also used in the manufacture of fluorescent glass. 
This element is also used in the anti-counterfeiting phosphors in Euro banknotes.
This element was named after a continent.

This element was named after its Finnish discoverer.
This element has been used to target tumors in neutron therapy. 
With as little as one per cent of this element, the workability and resistance of iron, chromium, and related alloys to high temperatures and oxidation are improved.
This element is paramagnetic at room temperature.
This element is use for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Solutions of an organic form of this element and this element’s compounds are used as intravenous MRI contrast agent to enhance images in medical magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) procedures.
Nanotubes packed with this element are 40 times more effective than a traditional contrast agent with this element. This accumulation provides a greater contrast between normal and abnormal tissues, allowing doctors to better locate uncommon cell growths and tumors.
Compounds of this element are also used for making green phosphors for color TV tubes and compact discs (CDs).
This element is used to make sure that nuclear medicine imaging systems operate correctly and produce useful images and is also used as a gamma ray source in X-ray absorption measurements or in bone-density gauges for osteoporosis, and in a portable X-ray imaging system.
A compound of this element has microwave applications and for magneto-optical films.
A compound of this element was used to make imitations diamonds. 

This element is named after the same Swedish town that another element is named after.
This metallic element is malleable, ductile and soft enough to be cut with a knife.
This element changes shape when placed in a magnetic field.
This element can turn any solid surface into a loudspeaker, using the SoundBug system. 
This element is used as a dopant in several compounds with fluorine, tungsten and strontium that are used in solid-state devices and as a crystal stabilizer of fuel cells.
This element is also used in alloys and in the production of electronic devices, actuators, solid state devices, and naval sonar systems.
An alloy with this element has the highest magnetostriction, the ability to change shape during the process of magnetization, of any alloy. 
This element is used in green phosphors in fluorescent lamps and color TV tubes that fluoresce a brilliant lemon-yellow and which are combined with europium blue phosphors and europium red phosphors to provide the "trichromatic” " lighting technology. This technology provides a much higher output for the same amount of energy as incandescent lighting.

This element’s name comes from a Greek word meaning,” “hard to get at”. (Perhaps it should have been named, “Hardtogetium”!)
Combined with iodine or bromine, this element makes valuable red spectral lines used in commercial lighting.
This element is used with vanadium and other elements to make lasers and commercial lighting.
This element is used in nuclear reactors because, combined with oxygen and nickel, it can absorb a large amount of neutrons.
Compounds of this element are sources of infrared radiation which is useful for studying chemical reactions.
This element and its compounds are highly susceptible to magnetization. They are employed in various data storage applications, such as in hard disks and in drive motors for hybrid electric vehicles.
This element is one of the components of Terfenol-D, along with iron and terbium.  This combination has the highest magnetostriction of any known material and is employed in transducers fuel injectors and wide-band mechanical resonators.
This element is used in dosimeters for measuring ionizing radiation.
Powder of this element can explode in air and cannot be put out by water because the element reacts with the water to produce hydrogen gas. Nanofibers of this element have high strength and large surface area and are used for reinforcement of other materials and as a catalyst.

This element was named after a city in Sweden. 
If you put this element near a magnet, it makes that magnet stronger.
This element is used in MRI machines when intense magnetic fields are required.
This element, in glass and crystals, can store optical energy and release it as a laser pulse.
This element has the highest magnetic strength of any element, and therefore is used to create the strongest artificially generated magnetic fields.  
This element can absorb nuclear fission-bred neutrons; it is also used in nuclear control rods.
This element is used in solid-state lasers found in microwave equipment; these lasers are safe to eyes and are used in medical, fiber-optical and dental applications.
This element is used to color cubic zirconia and glass, providing yellow or red coloring.
This element is used in some optical equipment.
A radioactive isotope of this element is used in calibration of gamma ray spectrometers.
This element is a member of the Lanthanide series of elements.

This element allows a pulse of light to be amplified in a fiber-optic cable without turning the pulse into an electrical current.  
This element is a soft, malleable metal.
This element, as well as three other elements, was named after a Swedish town.
Compounds of this element produce pink salts which have optical fluorescent properties particularly useful in certain laser applications.
This element is used as a colorant in porcelain and in glass which is then often used in sunglasses and inexpensive jewelry. 
This element can be used as optical amplification media, resulting in an unusually mechanically simple laser optical amplifier for signals transmitted by fiber optics. 
This element is used in nuclear technology in neutron-absorbing control rods.
When added to vanadium as an alloy, this element lowers hardness and improves workability.

This element’s name comes from the Latin and the Greek words for the name of the most northerly region of the world.
This element is very rare and for that reason, it is rarely used.
This element is an easily workable metal with a bright silvery-grey luster.
This element is used in portable X-Ray devices, microwave equipment, high temperature superconductors and in solid-state lasers.
This element provides a broad range of green spectral lines, unique to this element and is used by lighting designers.
With chromium, this element is widely used in military, medicine, and meteorology as a YAG laser.
This element is gaining popularity as an X-ray source for cancer treatment via brachytherapy and is used especially for prostate, breast and skin cancer.

This element is soft, malleable, ductile, and rarely is in liquid form.
This element is one of the four elements named after a Swedish town.  
An isotope of this element is used in portable X-Ray machines.
This element is used in stress gauges to monitor earthquakes and explosions.
This element is used as a dopant to change electrical properties in optics, fiber and disk lasers,  semiconductors crystals, and ceramics.
This element is used as a dopant to improve the quality of steel by helping improve the grain refinement, strength, and other mechanical properties of stainless steel.
This element is a member of the rare earth group of elements and is quite rare.
This element is a danger as it irritates skin and eyes. 
This element is a fire and explosion hazard.
This element is being tested for use in an even more accurate atomic clock than the cesium atomic clock and as a replacement for magnesium in certain kinds of infrared flares.

This element gets its name from the Latin word for “Paris”.
Compared to the other elements in its group, this element has the highest density, highest melting point and is the hardest of the group.
This element is used as a phosphor in LED light bulbs.
This element is currently the preferred compound for detectors in positron emission tomography (PET scans).
This element is used to find out the age of meteorites.
This element is used as a catalyst in oil refineries for petroleum cracking, and it is also used in alkylation, hydrogenation and polymerization applications. 
This element is the last member of the rare earth group of elements.

This element’s name comes from the Latin word for the city of Copenhagen.
This element is used in plasma torches to cut through steel easily.
This element is extremely resistant to corrosion.
This element has a high melting point and easily releases electrons into the air, making the torch that uses it run cooler and the arc hotter.
This element is a lustrous, silvery gray, transition metal that resembles zirconium and is found in zirconium ores.
This element’s existence was predicted its existence was predicted by Dmitri Mendeleev, the man who created the periodic table in 1869.
Most of this element that is produced is used in the production of control rods for nuclear reactors. 
Because of this element’s similarity to zirconium which is much less rare and expensive, this element is not used very often.
A compound of this element is used as gate insulator in integrated circuits
An alloy of this element with niobium and titanium is used for liquid rocket thruster nozzles. Motors with these nozzles were in the main engine of the Apollo Lunar Modules

This element is used in capacitors that have a small size and can absorb high frequency electrical noise.
This element’s name comes from the Greek word for a character is who was eternally punished by Zeus and made to remain chin deep in water with fruit branch above him. Every time he tried to drink or eat, the fruit and water receded.
This element is a rare, hard, blue-gray, lustrous transition metal that is highly corrosion resistant. 
This element is part of the refractory metals group, which are used as minor component in alloys and widely used for because extraordinary resistance heat and wear. 
Because of this element’s chemical inertness, it is a valuable substance for laboratory equipment and a substitute for platinum, 
This element is used in electronic equipment such as mobile phones, DVD players, video game systems and computers.
Alloyed with other metals, this element is also used in making carbide tools for metalworking equipment and in the production of superalloys for jet engine components, chemical process equipment, nuclear reactors, and missile parts.
This element can be drawn into fine wires which are used for evaporating metals such as aluminum.
 Since this element resists attack by body fluids and is nonirritating, it is widely used in making surgical instruments and implants, such as hip implants. 
This element can bond to hard tissue and is used in orthopedic implants.
This element is inert to most acids, except hydrofluoric acid and hot sulfuric acid, making it an ideal metal for chemical reaction vessels and pipes.
In the past, this element was extensively used in the production of ultrahigh frequency electron tubes for radio transmitters.
This element is used to make glass for camera lenses, and it is used in some precious watches.
This element is used in armor piercing ammunition.

This element’s name comes from the Swedish language name for “heavy stone”.
This element is sometimes called “wolfram,” from the German words meaning “wolf” and “soot” and its symbol comes from that name. 
A hard, rare metal under standard conditions when uncombined, this element is found naturally on earth only in chemical compounds.
This element is almost as hard as diamonds and it is much harder than steel. 
This element is used as a non-toxic metal for fishing sinkers
The free element has the highest melting point of all the non-alloyed metals and the second highest of all the elements after carbon. 
This element has a density of almost 20 times that of water, comparable to that of uranium and gold, and much higher than lead. 
This element is brittle and hard if it has minor amounts of impurities which makes it hard to work with, but the pure form of this element, is more ductile, and can be cut with a hard-steel hacksaw.
This element is used for cutting tools, incandescent light bulb filaments fluorescent lighting, X-Ray tubes, welding and superalloys.
This element is used for penetrating projectiles as in armor piercing bullets.
This element’s compounds are most often used industrially as catalysts.
This element is known to occur in a few species of bacteria, and is the heaviest element known to be used by any living organism, but it can be toxic to animals.
Because the carbide of this element is so hard, it is used, it is an important industrial compound, and used for industrial machinery, cutting tools, abrasives, other tools such as circular saws, milling and turning, tools used in woodworking, mining, petroleum and construction industries, instruments, and jewelry. 
This compound with carbon is a ceramic and is also an efficient electrical conductor.
This element in an alloy with steel is a good material for rocket nozzles, turbine blades and with nickel or cobalt, for cannon shells, grenades and missiles 
When bars of this element are plated with gold it has been used in the counterfeiting of gold bars.
This element’s density, similar to that of gold, allows this element to be used in jewelry as an alternative to gold or platinum, and it is hypoallergenic. 
This element is used for darts, weights, counterweights, ballast keels for yachts, tail ballast for commercial aircraft and as ballast in race cars for NASCAR and Formula One.

This element, a silvery-white transition element, was the last stable element to be discovered, probably in Japan in 1908, but not placed in the periodic table until 1925.
This element’s existence was predicted by Dmitri Mendeleev.
Nickel-based superalloys of this element are used in the combustion chambers, turbine blades, and exhaust nozzles of jet engines, making jet engine construction the largest single use for the element.
This element’s use as a catalyst to make high octane lead-free gasoline is the second most important use.
This element is one of the rarest in the earth’s crust.
This element has the third highest melting point and the highest boiling point of any element.
This element resembles manganese and is obtained as a by-product of molybdenum and copper ore’s extraction and refinement.
This element is one of the most expensive elements because of its scarcity.
This element it is also of critical strategic military importance, for its use in high performance military jet and rocket engines.
The high temperature stability, low vapor pressure, good wear resistance and ability to withstand arc corrosion of this element are useful in self-cleaning electrical contacts. 
This element is used in the treatment of liver cancer and radio pharmacy.
As an alloy with tungsten, this element is used in X-Ray tubes.
This element gets its name from the Rhine River in Germany.

This element’s name comes from the Greek word for “smell” because of one of its oxide forms.
This element has a bluish, silvery color and is the densest element.
This element is the hardest metal.
In its oxide form this element is toxic and volatile. 
Like palladium, the powdered form of this element effectively absorbs hydrogen atoms which could make it possible to be used in a battery electrode. 
This element has a reflectivity twice that of gold which is desirable space-based UV spectrometers which have reduced mirror sizes due to space limitations. Coated mirrors with this element mirrors were flown in several space missions aboard the Space Shuttle, but oxygen radicals in low earth orbit degraded the mirrors.
This element is often found as an alloy with iridium.
A tetroxide of this element has been used in fingerprint detection, in stain fatty tissue for optical and electron microscopy and to enhance image contrast in transmission electron microscopy (TEM) studies of biological materials.
An alloy of  platinum and this element is used in surgical implants such as pacemakers and as replacement of pulmonary valves.
This element was used in fountain pen nibs and phonograph needles.
This element is in the platinum family.

This element is a member of the transition group of elements.
This element is the second densest element and the most corrosion resistant. This element is hard and brittle.
A radioactive form of this element can be used in an electrical generator that obtains its power from radioactive decay. 
This element has a high melting point and a high boiling point and becomes a superconductor at very low temperatures.
This element is white with a slight yellowish cast, is the second densest element after osmium and the most corrosion resistant element. 
This element is used in high-end spark plugs, crucibles and electrodes.
This element as an alloy with is used in long-life aircraft engine parts.
As an alloy with titanium this element is used for deep-water pipes because of its corrosion resistance. 
This element is also used as a hardening agent in platinum alloys.
This element is found in abundance in meteorites.
Because this element is found in meteorites and there is a layer in the earth between two ages, the Cretaceous, and the Paleogene (sometimes Paleocene) which contains this element, is a widely accepted theory that a large meteor hit the earth and exterminated the dinosaurs.
This element is used a method of inspecting materials for hidden flaws by using the ability of short X-Rays and gamma rays to penetrate various materials.
The high melting point, hardness and corrosion resistance of this element and its alloys determine most of its applications. 
This element as an alloy with platinum or osmium is used for multi-pored spinnerets that have small holes that melted plastic is forced through to form fibers such as rayon.
This element as an alloy with osmium is used for compass bearings and for balances.
A radioactive form of this element is used as a source of gamma radiation for the treatment of cancer using brachytherapy, a form of radiotherapy where a sealed radioactive source is placed inside or next to the area such as the prostate or the cervix requiring treatment.
This element was named after the Greek goddess of the rainbow because of the striking and diverse colors of its salts.

This element is one of the most expensive and prestigious metals.
This element has a group named after it in the periodic table.
This element’s name comes from the Spanish word meaning, “Little Silver of the Pinto River”.
This element is dense, malleable, ductile, generally unreactive and rare.
This element occurs in some nickel and copper and ores mostly in South Africa, which accounts for eighty per cent of the world production.
This element is generally non-reactive. It exhibits a remarkable resistance to corrosion, even at high temperatures, and as such is considered a noble metal. 
Because it is often found as a pure element, Pre-Columbian South American natives used it to produce artifacts. 
This element is used in catalytic converters, laboratory equipment, electrical contacts and electrodes, certain thermometers, dental equipment, and jewelry.
This element is not as toxic as some metals and used in chemotherapy against certain types of cancer, particularly testicular cancer.
This element is a scarce material, and is highly valuable and is a major precious metal commodity. 
The price of this element can be as much as twice the price of gold and Louis XV of France declared it the only metal fit for a king.
This element is used in high end watches and other fine jewelry. 

This element’s symbol comes from the Latin word for it, and its name comes from the Old English and German word meaning “bright and yellow” and originally the Sanskrit word meaning “shine”.
This element resists most acids, but can be dissolved in nitro-hydrochloric (aqua regia) acid or mercury.
This element is a very dense, soft, shiny, and the most malleable and ductile of all metals. (A single gram can be beaten into a sheet of 1 square meter, or an ounce into 300 square feet.)
This element is a member of the transition group of elements.
This element often occurs as a free element in nature.
This element can be beaten thin enough to become transparent, and therefore, is used as infrared (radiant heat) shields, heat resistant suits, and sun-visors for spacesuits.
This element readily creates alloys with many other metals. These alloys can be produced to modify the hardness and other metallurgical properties, to control melting point or to create exotic colors.
This element is unaffected by air, moisture and most corrosive reagents, and is therefore well suited for use in coins and jewelry and as a protective coating on other, more reactive metals.
This element is a good conductor of heat and electricity and reflects infrared radiation strongly. This element is tasteless and scentless and was used as a decoration on the food of some kings.
Some salts of this element have anti-inflammatory properties and are used as pharmaceuticals in the treatment of arthritis and other similar conditions. 
Injections of salts this element have been explored as a means to help to reduce the pain and swelling of rheumatoid arthritis. 
This element is inert to all chemicals it encounters inside the body and, as an alloy, it is used in dentistry for tooth restorations.
This element is used in some high end electrical wiring.
This element is expensive and rare. (All of this element that was ever mined could fit in a cube sixty feet on edge.)
This element is used in research applications in medicine, biology, some cancer treatments and materials science.
In glass, this element makes the glass cranberry red.
This element can be spun into thread for use on clothing.
Alloys of this element and palladium are applied as coating to biological specimens and other non-conducting materials such as plastics and glass to be viewed in a scanning electron microscope.
This element has been used as a form of money since antiquity.

This element’s name comes from the Greek words for water (“hydr-“) and silver (“argros”).
A compound of this pigment is used as the pigment, vermillion.
This element is used in thermometers, barometers, monometers, sphygmomanometers, float valves, some electrical switches and other scientific apparatus.
This element is used as an amalgam for dental restoration.
This element  is the only metal that is liquid at standard conditons for temperature and pressure; the only other element that is liquid under these conditions is bromine and metals such as caesium francium, gallium and rubidium melt just above room temperature.
With a freezing point of −38.83 °C and a boiling point of 356.73 °C, mercury has one of the narrowest ranges of its liquid state of any metal.
This element is the worst kind of poison since the person does not that he or she is being poisoned until the damage has been done.
This element can collect in large, fatty marine animals such as tuna.

This element’s name comes from the Greek word “thallos” meaning “green stalk” because it was named after the green line in the spectrum.
This element was discovered independently in 1861 by two different chemists, Crookes and Lamy.
This element was discovered using the new method of flame spectroscopy.
This element was discovered in the residue of sulfuric acid.
Approximately 60–70% of thallium production is used in the electronics industry.  The rest is used in the pharmaceutical industry, glass manufacturing and infrared detectors.
This element was used in rat poisons and insecticides, but has been reduced or eliminated in many countries because of its toxicity.
This element has the nicknames “The Poisoner’s Poison” and “Inheritance Powder” because it has been used for murder.

This element  symbol comes from the Latin word: “Plumbum”.
This element is a heavy metal, bluish-white in color, with a shiny chrome-silver luster when melted.
This element is used in building construction, some batteries, bullets, weights and shots
This element is used as part of solders, pewters, fusible annoys and for radiation shields.
Lead has the highest atomic number of all the stable elements, although bismuth, with a higher atomic number has such a long half-life, that it can be considered stable.
This element is a poisonous substance to animals as well as for human beings. It damages the nervous system and causes brain disorders and blood disorders in mammals. 
This element is a neurotoxin that accumulates both in soft tissues and the bones. 
Poisoning from this element has been documented from ancient Rome, ancient Greece and ancient China.

The name of this element may have come from the Arabic word meaning having the properties of antimony, or from the German words “weisse masse”, meaning “white mass”.
This element resembles arsenic and antimony.
This element may occur naturally uncombined or often with sulfur as an oxide.
This element is almost as dense as lead.  
Until the 18th century it was often confused with lead and tin, which each have some of the metal's bulk physical properties.
Compounds are used in cosmetics, medicines, and in medical procedures. (A familiar “over-the-counter medicine has this element in it.)
This element has unusually low toxicity and its alloy is being used as a substitute for lead. 
This element has been considered until recently as a stable element, but it has been found to be slightly radioactive, but its half-life is longer than the age of the universe.

This element is named after the homeland of Marie Curie.
This element was discovered by Pierre and Marie Curie.
This element is a rare and highly radioactive element, chemically similar to bismuth and tellurium.
This element occurs in uranium ores.
This element has been studied for possible use in heating spacecraft.
All isotopes of this element are radioactive.
The Russian ex-KGB agent was poisoned by this element.
This element is used in antistatic brushes.

The name of this element comes from the Greek word “astatos” meaning not “steadfast” or “unstable”.
This element is considered naturally occurring, but its half-life is only 8.3 hours.
This element is the heaviest known halogen.
Some astatine isotopes have been used as alpha particle emitters in science, and medical applications for astatine-211 have been tested.
Among non-transuranium (the chemical elements with atomic numbers greater than 92 (the atomic number of uranium).This elements is the least abundant element in Earth's crust, with an estimated amount of less than 28 grams (1 oz.) at any given time.
This element is the rarest naturally occurring element.

This element is a colorless and odorless gas, and therefore not detectable by human senses alone.
This element about 8 times the density of the Earth’s atmosphere at sea level.
This element has a brilliant phosphorescence (a delayed emission of light) which turns from yellow to orange-red as the temperature is lowered.
This element is one of the densest substances that remains a gas under normal conditions and is considered a health hazard due to its radioactivity.
This element is responsible for the majority of the public exposure to ionizing radiation. It is often the single largest contributor to an individual's background radiation dose, and is the most variable from location to location. 
This element, from natural sources can accumulate in buildings, especially in confined areas such as attics and basements. It can also be found in some spring waters and hot springs.
This element is formed as part of the normal radioactive decay of uranium and thorium.
According to the EPA, (The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency) this element is the second most frequent cause of lung cancer, after cigarette smoking, causing 21,000 lung cancer deaths per year in the United States.
Granite represents a major source of this element, uranium, and thorium in bedrock.

This element has the lowest ability to attract electons.
This element is the second rarest naturally occurring element after astatine.
This element was named after the country in which the discoverer (in 1939), Marguerite Perey lived.
This element decays either into astatine, radium or radon.
This element is an alkali metal, having one valance electron.
This element was the last element discovered in nature.

This element is an almost pure-white alkaline earth metal that readily oxidizes, becoming black in color.
This element was discovered in uraninite which is in uranium by Pierre and Marie Curie in 1898.
Radium is the heaviest alkaline earth metal; its chemical properties mostly resemble those of barium.
This element is dangerous for living organisms because of its radioactivity.
This element comes from the Latin word for “ray”.

This element gave the name to a whole series of elements, a group of 15 similar elements between including Lawrencium in the periodic table. 
This element comes from the Ancient Greek word “aktis” meaning “beam or ray”.
This element was the first primordial element (an element that did not exist before the Earth was formed).
This element was found in the residue of the same pitchblende (uranium ore) that Pierrte and Marie Curie used when they discovered Radium.
This element is a soft silvery-white radioactive metal.
This element can be found in small amounts by the neutron irradiation of Radium (Ra) in a nuclear reactor. 
This element’s current applications include a neutron source and an agent for radiation therapy targeting cancer cells in the body.

There is three times as much of this element as there is of tin, and four times as much as uranium.
This grayish-white element is a radioactive, malleable, ductile metal.
The oxides of this element were used in gas light and lamps and “quack” medicines untial it was discover that the element was radioactive.
This element is used in optical coatings, magnetron (high-powered vacuum tubes that generate microwaves) 

In 1871, Dmitri Mendeleev the creator of the Periodic Table predicted the existence of an element between thorium and uranium which where this element is on the periodic table.
Protactinium is one of the rarest and most expensive naturally occurring elements.
Protactinium is paramagnetic (a material that is slightly attracted by a magnetic field, but does not retain the magnetic properties when the external field is removed)  and no magnetic transitions are known for it at any temperature.
Protactinium occurs in uraninite (pitchblende).
This element results from the decay of thorium-233 as part of the chain of events used to produce uranium=233 by neutron irradiation of thorium-232. It is an undesired intermediate product in thorium-based nuclear reactors and is therefore removed from the active zone of the reactor during the breeding process.

This element was named after one of the planets and one of the Greek Titans .
This element is a silvery-white metal in the actinide series of the periodic table. 
All isotopes of this element are weakly radioactive.
This element has the second highest atomic weight of the naturally occurring elements, lighter only than plutonium-244 with a density is about 70% higher than that of lead, but not as dense as gold or tungsten.
It occurs naturally in low concentrations of a few parts per million in soil, rock, and water, and is commercially extracted from certain minerals, including pitchblende.
This element has been used as a colorant in pottery such as “Fiestaware” producing orange-red to lemon yellow hues.
This element is useful in dating the age of the Earth.
This element has the only naturally occurring fissile isotope (a fissile material is one that is capable of sustaining a chain reaction of nuclear fission.
A depleted form of this element is used in kinetic energy penetrators (is a type of ammunition which, like a bullet, does not contain explosive and uses kinetic energy (energy in motion). 
Spinthariscopes  (devices for observing individual nuclear disintegrations) use this element.

A radioactive metal, this element is the first transuranic (after uranium) element and belongs to the actinide series.
A stable isotope( a variant of this element -237 which has a differing number of neutrons from another isotope of this element.
This element is a by-product of nuclear reactors and plutonium, and it can be used as a component in neutron detection equipment.
This element is found in trace amounts in uranium.
This element was named after the Roman God of the Sea.
Older smoke detectors have some of this element, caused from the breakdown of  americium which is used in them.
This planet was named after the next planet out from Uranus.

This element, like most metals, has a bright silvery appearance at first, much like nickel
This element oxidizes (combines with oxygen, losing electrons) very quickly and turns into a dull grey, although yellow and olive green are also reported.[5][6] At room temperature this element is about as hard and brittle as as greay cast iron.
When alloyed (An alloy is a homogeneous mixture or metallic solid solution composed of two or more elements alloyed with other metals to make it soft and ductile.)
Unlike most metals, this element is not a good conductor of heat or electricity. 
This element has a low melting point (640 °C) and an unusually high boiling point (3,327 °C).
This element is used as a MOX (mixed oxide) fuel for nuclear reactors.
A small amount of this element is used in pacemakers.
This element has been used as fuel for several deep-space spacecraft such as the “New Horizons” Pluto probe.

This element is used in very small amounts in smoke detectors.
The discovery of this element and curium in 1944 was closely related to the Manhattan Project (The Manhattan Project was a research and development program, led by the United States with first atomic bomb during World War II.)
This element was likely produced in previous nuclear experiments, but it was first intentionally synthesized, isolated and identified at the University of California, Berkely by Glenn T. Seaborg, Leon O. Morgan, Ralph A. James and Albert Ghiorso, using a cyclotron (particle accelerator).
This element is named after one of the continents.

This element is a hard, dense silvery metal with a relatively high melting point and boiling point for an actinide. 
This element is paramagnetic (material is only attracted when in the presence of an externally applied magnetic field in certain conditions.
This element becomes antiferromagnetic (the basic mechanism by which certain materials such as iron form permanent magnets or are attracted to magnets.) upon cooling.
This element readily oxidizes, and its oxides are a dominant form of this element.
All known isotopes  of this element are radioactive
This element forms strongly fluorescent (Fluorescence is the emission of light by a substance that has absorbed light or other electromagnetic radiation of a different wavelength.) complexes with various organic (compounds, but there is no evidence of its incorporation into bacteria  and archaea. 
This element can  emit alpha-particles, and the heat released in this process can potentially produce electricity in radioisotope thermoelectric generators (generators that obtain their power its power from radioactive decay..
When introduced into human body, this element accumulates in the bones, lungs and liver where it promotes cancer.
This element was used as the alpha source for the X-Ray spectrometers installed on the Sojourner, Mars, Mars 96, Athena, Spirit and Opportunity rovers to  analyze the composition and structure of the rocks on the surface of Mars and the Moon.. Such a spectrometer will also be used by the Philae lander of the Rosetta spacecraft to probe the surface of the 67Pchuryumov-Gerasimenko comet.
A synthetic, radioactive element, this element is a hard dense metal with silvery-white appearance and physical and chemical properties resembling those of gadolinium.
This element was named after the couple who discovered radium.

This element is a synthetic (atoms of synthetic elements only occur on Earth as the product of experiments that involve nuclear reactors or particle accelerators, via nuclear fusion or neutron absorption ) element of the actinide and transuranium (after uranium) series.
Just over one gram of this element has been produced in the United States since 1967.
The only practical application of this element is for scientific research which is mostly directed at the synthesis of heavier transuranic elements and transactinides.
This element was named after a city in California.

This element is a radioactive metallic element 
This element was first made in the laboratory in 1950 by bombarding curium with alpha particles (named after and denoted by the first letter in the Greek alphabet and consisting of two protons and two neutrons bound together into a particle identical to a helium nucleus.)
This element is the ninth member of the actinide series and was the sixth transuranium to be synthesized. 
This element is the second-highest atomic mass element to be produced in amounts large enough to see with the unaided eye, after einsteinium.
This element is not found in the Earth’s crust.
The element has two crystalline forms- A double-hexagonal close-packed form dubbed alpha (α) and a face-centered cubic form.
Isotopes of this element are ferromagnetic (a permanent magnet) or ferrimagnetic (acting like a magnet, antiferromagnetic (not acting like a magnet)or paramagnetic (external magnetic fields can make it magnetic). 
This element is named after one of the states in the United States.

This element is rarely referred to as Athenium.
This element is an actinide and a transuranic element.
This element was discovered in the debris of the first hydrogen bomb explosion in 1952.
This element’s most common isotope is produced in high-powered nuclear reactors with a  total yield of only one milligram.
This element is a soft, silvery, paramagnetic metal (magnetic when attracted by a magnetic metal, but not magnetic otherwise).
This element converts to berkelium and then californium at a rate of about 3% per day.
This element was discovered in the debris of the first hydrogen bomb explosion in 1952.
This element was named after a theoretical physicist who developed the Theory of General Relativity.

This element was named after the scientist who created the first sustained nuclear chain reaction. (A nuclear chain reaction starts when a neutron hits and splits a heavy atom, releasing more neutrons which split more atoms and so forth.)
This element was discovered in the debris of the first hydrogen bomb explosion in 1952.
This element is the heaviest element that can be formed by neutron bombardment of lighter elements, and hence the last element that can be prepared in macroscopic quantities, although this metal has not yet been prepared.
This element is a member of the actinide series.

This element is a synthetic element.
This element is a radioactive transuranic element in the actinide series.
This element usually synthesized by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles.
The discovery of this element was based on a grand total of only 17 atoms.
This element was named for the man who created the periodic table, a fundamental way to classify all chemical elements.

The appearance of this element is unknown, however it is most likely silvery-white or gray and metallic. 
If sufficient amounts of this element were produced, it would pose a radiation hazard.
This element is named after the inventor of dynamite.
This element was first correctly identified in 1966 by scientists at the Flerov Laboratory of Nuclear Reactions in Dubna, Russia (formerly the Soviet Union).
This element is predicted to be predicted to have a trivalent ion that is associated with its presence as one of the actinoids.
This element is named after the man who started the annual international awards bestowed by Scandinavian committees in recognition of cultural and scientific advances.

All isotopes of this element are radioactive.
This element is the last element of actinide series.
This element in a compound form behaves as the heavier homologue (a compound belonging to a series of compounds differing from each other by a repeating unit) to lutetium.
This element was first synthesized by the nuclear-physics team led by Albert Ghiorso on February 14, 1961, at the National Laboratory of the University of California at Berkeley.
The first atoms of this element were produced by bombarding a three-milligram target consisting of three isotopes of the element californium with boron-10 and boron-11 nuclei from the Heavy Ion Linear Accelerator. 
This elements most stable known isotope has a half-life of less than a minute.
This element was named after the man from the University of California, Berkeley, who invented the cyclotron (a device that uses electromagnetic fields to propel charged particles to high speeds and to contain them in well-defined beams- a particle accelerator).

This element was named in honor of a New Zealand physicist.
This element is a synthetic (not found in nature) element.
This element’s most stable isotope has a half-life of approximately 1.3 hours.
This element is one of the first of the transactinide elements (after actinium).
This element is a member of the 7th period (All 7th period elements are radioactive.) and belongs to the group 4 (the group of transition metals containing such metals as titanium and zirconium). 
Chemistry experiments have confirmed that this element behaves as the heavier homologue to hafnium in group 4.

This element was named after a city in the former Soviet Union (Russia) where it was first produced.
This element is a synthetic element (an element that can be created in a laboratory but is not found in nature).
This element is radioactive.
This element is a d-block (also known as a transition metal) in the transactinide series of elements.
This element is similar to tantalum and is sometimes called “eka-tantalum” and is in the group 5 series of elements, that includes tantalum, niobium and vanadium.
Because of the naming controversy, this element is sometimes referred to as “nielsbohrium” in honor of the Danish physicist Niels Bohr or “hahnium” in honor of the German chemist Otto Hahn or joliotium Jl after the French physicist Frederic Joliot-Curie.
This element was also referred to by the temporary name as “unnilpentium” or “ununpentium”.

This element is a synthetic element (not found in nature) that is similar to tungsten.
This element is radioactive with its most stable isotope having a half-life of 1.9 minutes. 
Because some chemists felt that an element should not be named for a living person, this element was originally known as “unnilhexium” (symbol Unh).
This element was first created in 1974 at the Super HILAC accelerator at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory by a joint Lawrence Berkeley/Lawrence Livermore collaboration led by Albert Ghiorso and E. Kenneth Hulet.
This element is projected to be the third member of the 6d series of transition metals and the heaviest member of group 6 in the Periodic Table, below chromium, molybdenum and tungsten and is sometimes known as "eka-tungsten". 
This element was named after one of the chemists at the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory at the University of California at Berkeley who wrote 50 books and 500 scientific journal articles.

This synthetic radioactive element is the heaviest member of group 7 (VIIB).
 This element’s most stable known isotope has a half-life of 61 seconds. 
This element’s predicted position is as a heavier homologue to “rhenium”.
This element is named after a famous Danish physicist who made foundational contributions to understanding atomic structure and quantum mechanics, (wave-particle duality which  postulates that all particles exhibit both wave and particle properties) for which he received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1922.

This element is a radioactive synthetic element and a member of the group 8 (VIII) elements.
This element is similar to “osmium”.
This element was first synthesized in 1984 by a German research team led by Peter Armbruster and Gottfried Munzenberg at the Institute for Heave Ion Research in Darmstadt.
This element was produced by bombarding a lead target with an isotope of iron  to produce 3 atoms of this element.
This element has historically been known as “eka-osmium” .
During the period of controversy over the names of the elements, the name unniloctium (Uno) was used as a temporary name.
This element’s name was proposed by the officially recognized German discoverers in 1992, derived from the Latin name for a German state where the Institute is located.

This element was named after an Austrian physicist who, along with Otto Hahn, discovered Protactinium, element 91.
This element is a synthetic, radioactive element analogous to 
This element is placed as the heaviest member of group 9 (or VIII) in the periodic table but a sufficiently stable isotope is not known at this time which would allow chemical experiments to confirm its position, unlike its lighter neighbors.
This element was first synthesized in 1982 and several isotopes are currently known. The heaviest and the most stable isotope known has a half-life of around 8 seconds.
This element was discovered by Peter Armbruster and Gottfried Munzenbery at the Institute for Heavy Ion Research in Darmstadt.
This element was bombarded  a target of bismuth by accelerated nuclei of an isotope of iron. 
The first discovery  produced only one atom of this element.
This element should be a heavy metal similar to iridium.

This element is a synthetic, radioactive element.
This element is placed in group 10 which elements nickel, palladium and platinum, but a sufficiently stable isotope is not known which would allow chemical experiments to confirm its place.
This element is one of the so-called super-heavy atoms with a confirmed half-life of around 10 seconds and an unconfirmed half-life of 4 minutes.
This element was first synthesized in 1994, at a facility near the city in Germany.
This element is sometimes known by the name ununnilium.

This element is a synthetic radioactive element.
This element is placed as the heaviest member of the group 11 (IB) elements.
If a sufficient amount of this element from a sufficiently stable isotope is produced, it shoud confirm that this element is a heavier homologue (an element belonging to a series of compounds differing from each other by a repeating unit, such as a methylene group, etc.) of gold.
This element was first observed in 1994 and several isotopes have been synthesized since its discovery. The most stable known isotope has a half-life of around 26 seconds.
The most stable isotope decays by spontaneous fission..
This element was named after the German physicist who discovered X-Rays.

This element was called by another name, “ununbium” until 2009.
On 14 July 2009, a committee of IUPAC proposed to honor an outstanding scientist, who changed our view of the world.
In the periodic table of the elements, it is a d-block element, which belongs to transactinide (after actinium) element and is extremely radioactive.  
The most stable isotope of this element has a half-life of approximately 29 seconds, but another isotope may have an isomer (a somewhat long-lived, but not stable) of 8.9 minutes.
During reactions with gold, this element  is shown to be a volatile metal and a group 12 element.
This element should be similar to zinc, cadmium and mercury.

This element is placed as the heaviest member of the group 13 (IIIA) elements although a sufficiently stable isotope is not known at this time that would allow chemical experiments to confirm its position.
This element should be similar to boron, aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium.
This element was first detected in 2003 in the decay of ununpentium and was synthesized directly in 2004. 
The longest-lived isotope known has a half-life of around 20 seconds.
This element has a temporary name, but is sometimes known as eka-thallium. 
This element was first detected in 2003 in the decay of ununpentium and was synthesized directly in 2004. 
Only fourteen atoms of this element have been observed to date. 

This element is synthetic, unstable and radioactive
This radioactive element is named after the Russian physicist Georgy Flyorov, the founder of the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna, Russia, where the element was discovered. The name was adopted by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry(IUPAC) on May 31, 2012. 
The longest lived currently known isotope has a half-life of about 2.6 seconds although there appears to be an isotope with a half-life of around 66 seconds.
The element appears to behave as the first superheavy element that portrays noble gas-like properties (similar to fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine and astatine due to relativistic effects). 

This element has a temporary name.
This element is a synthetic superheavy element.
This element is placed as the heaviest member of group 15 (VA) although a sufficiently stable isotope is not known at this time that would allow chemical experiments to confirm its position. 
This element was first observed in 2003
Only about 30 atoms of this element have been synthesized to date, with just 4 direct decays of the parent element having been detected. 
Four consecutive isotopes of this element are currently known,  the longest having  a half-life of around 220 milliseconds.
This element is also known as eka-bismuth.
This element was discovered at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna, Russia in 2004 and the discovery was further strengthened by the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in Berkeley California when they bombarded americium-243 with calcium-48 to produce four atoms of this element.

This element is a synthetic superheavy element. 
The name was adopted by IUPAC on May 31, 2012.  It was named after the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in Livermore, California.
The name was adopted by on May 31, 2012. 
It is placed as the heaviest member of group 16 (VIA) although a sufficiently stable isotope is not known at this time to allow chemical experiments to confirm its position as a heavier homologue to polonium. (i.e., similar to polonium)

This element is temporarily placed in the halogen family, but there is no real evidence that it matches lighter members such as iodine and astatine and theoretical analysis suggests there may be some notable differences.
However, this element is sometimes called “eka-astatine.”
This element was discovered in Dubna, Moscow Oblast Russia in 2009-2010.

This element is believed to be a transactinide element. 
This element is sometimes called “eka-emanation.”
This element is a p-block element and the last one of the 7th Period. 
This element is the only synthetic element in Group 18.
In late 1998, Polish physicist Robert Smolanczuk published calculations on the fusion of atomic nuclei towards the synthesis of superheavy atoms, including this element.
This element is radioactive and very unstable and only 3 or 4 atoms have been detected.
It has the highest atomic number and highest atomic mass of all the elements discovered so far.
This element should be a noble gas, and was formerly thought to be a gas but is now predicted to be a solid under normal conditions due to relativistic effects (effects that include information learned from the theory of relativity).
The Russian discoverers reported their synthesis of this element in 2006 after work had been done at the Lawrence Livermore Laboratories earlier. 

This element is also known as eka-francium or element 119, is the temporary name of a hypothetical chemical element in the periodic table that has the temporary symbol.  To date, attempted syntheses of this element have been unsuccessful. Since it is below the alkali it might have properties similar to those of francium or cesium and thus be extremely reactive with water and air although less although probably less so than francium and cesium. 
